From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 12 Apr 2002 18:07:50 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: [T2] so we got in the red vw microbus, and headed toward the police officer station!

I've driven a 1967 VW Bus since the 70's, and the whole "hassle" thing has
to do
not only with place to place but also from time to time.

Lemme explain:

In the 70's, in my 20's, in Reno, Nevada, I would be pulled over in my 67
splittie almost every week. I'm sure it wasn't that often, but it seemed
like it. Anytime I drove anywhere, I was perfectly legal, far more so than
most of the "straights." That just seemed to piss 'em off even more. Lots of
"get on the ground," guns drawn, illegal searches, roughing-ups, and amusing
aspersions regarding my maniless (stuff like, "What's with the goldilocks,
girlie? <JAB. JAB.> You a commie?" JAB. PUNCH). I hate those shows that
depict the time as such a benign era, where everyone wore long hair and
everyone liked rock music, when for those actually in the counterculture it
was a virtual police (and dangerous) state.

Then in the 80's. in my 30's, I acquired >my< ham license, and (as in ham
operator's George Lyle post) I found myself being stopped (although not as
often as in previous years) because they'd see this "hippie bus" with
antennas all over it (yikes, geek aura AND hippie aura -- way too much data
for some brains), call my ham plates in, and they'd come back "fictitious."
My favorite was when this one guy stopped me, I get out of my bus, again the
only stickers on it are all associations with air race communications and
ham radio, and this guy starts freaking out, this guy with a badge and a
gun, shouting at me, again with gun drawn, "Where's your gun!? Where's your
gun!?"

Jeez, man, c'mon. It's a VW bus. I actually said to the guy as I looked back
my bus, "Oh, you saw the NRA sticker, huh?"

My attempt at humor to coach reason into this armed maniac's head, trust me,
did no good. Pretty scary. Ironically at the time, I was a deputized
communications volunteer for the county sheriff's Search & Rescue (ID, badge
and all), and last thing most of *those* guys cared about was what kind of
vehicle I drove; there were far more important matters at hand, like life
and death. Sure, occasionally some of the other deputies would ask me about
the bus, but they didn't have little beads of sweat on their upper lip while
they were doing it, while demanding to know where I stashed my apparently
extensive cache of undoubteldly stolen firearms.

But in more recent years, in my 40's, local coppage mostly leave me and my
bus alone. Where they used to stare and do sudden U-turns in the street,
lights flashing and sirens screaming, to pull me over on the way to the
grocery store... and then later where the next generation of cops used to
stare, follow me around, get bored and leave or go to a call... this
generation of cops doesn't even look once at me (then again, they don't do
much else here, either: Reno is the Run The Red Light capital of the world,
and I've seen people run red lights right in front of a current-generation
cop, and he'll just... sit... there). Now that's another kind of scary.

But in the end I still "look" the same, exhibiting all the traits that
laughably once raised the alarm that a revolutionary was in their midst!
Long hair (although now a helluva lot less of it), wireframe glasses,
sandals and an old '67 Transporter.

Same place... oh, yes... just different time.

Craig
N7CAS




