Date: Sat, 13 Apr 2002 20:43:52 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Carb success!

All,

I finally put the Bocar 30-PICT-1 carb back together and put it back
on the '64.  I had it out to get the throttle shaft rebushed, and I
also ran it through a carb bucket and lapped down the body and the
air horn to get them to mate better.  It was sitting on a steel spacer
to make up for the lack of a governor; the PO had installed long studs
on the carb to hold the carb and spacer down.  I went back to short
studs for the carb-spacer flanges and separate bolts for the spacer-
manifold flanges, because I figured this would give me a better
seal.  
 
I put a rebuild kit in it and put it back on this afternoon.  Wow!  It
idles at less than 1000 rpm and the volume control screw actually has
an effect now!  Haven't driven it enough to know if it's still running
rich, but it certainly _sounds_ better.

The only new problem I made is that with the stiffer throttle shaft,
the throttle lever doesn't want to return to idle anymore.  The pedal
goes down as far as you push it, but then stays there when you take
your foot off.  I plan on taking the pedal linkage apart to check
and grease it, and maybe pulling the accelerator cable out to grease
it too.  This carb has the return spring that goes from the throttle
lever to a hook screwed to the air horn; the "cone and spring" is
still on the throttle cable but it's never had the spring seat
(slotted washer) that would make the cable spring effective.

One interesting thing I saw was condensation on the spacer and top
vertical part of the intake manifold.  When I was messing with it,
it was about 68 F, 85% relative humidity outside.  As soon as I
got the engine started, I noticed the condensation, and when I
touched the spacer and the manifold, they were very cold.  I have
all the preheat gear on the engine and the preheat tube on the
manifold did start to warm up as the engine ran, so I don't think
it'll be a problem.  I just thought it was interesting.  Mostly
I'm taking it as a sign that the carb is tight; now all the air
that ends up in the manifold is going through the venturi, instead
of leaking in around the throttle shaft, spacer, etc. 

Matt Roberds


