From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 14 Apr 2002 13:25:25 -0700
Subject: electrical tipper woes

Hi All,

Yesterday I jumped in the tipper to go down and rent a lawn thatcher... It
fired right up as normal and purred down to the rental place.  We loaded up
the thatcher and I ended up giving a demonstration of the dump mechanism.
Anyway, when I jumped in to leave and turned the key, nothing.  Strange I
thought.  So, with a little help, they pushed me and it fired right up and
away I went.  On the way home, I noticed that the turn indicators were
flashing at a different rate... Strange I thought again.  Once home, it
wouldn't start again but give it a little push and away I went.  I left it
running when we unloaded the thatcher and then on the way home, the turn
indicators stopped working all together.

So, this morning, I broke out the idiot book and started reading.  These are
the things I noticed and did:

(67 single cab, 12 volts)

- fan belt adjustment is ok.

- The battery reads just over 12 Volts with the engine off but if I get the
engine running (the garage is on a hill so it's easy to start) the voltage
reads ~9 volts.  By the end of my futzing around, the voltage while the
engine was running was down around 6 volts or so.  I cleaned both terminals.

- I pulled the brushes out of the generator, (one was sticking a little),
cleaned them up and cleaned the rotor as described in the Muirs book.

- If I pull the fan belt off and disconnect the red and green wires, hook up
the Volt meter to ground and the red post and spin the generator with my
hand, I read about 1-3 volts and it varies with the speed it is spinning
(engine off, just me spinning it)

- By the end of me playing, if I pushed the tipper started and then turned
on the headlights, it would kill the engine!  But with the engine off, the
battery still reads ~12 volts.

So, what's up?  Voltage regulator, generator, other?


David
http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/67tipper.htm



