Date: Mon, 15 Apr 2002 04:40:41 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] electrical tipper woes

>From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
>Date: Sun, 14 Apr 2002 13:25:25 -0700
>
>On the way home, I noticed that the turn indicators were flashing at 
>a different rate...

Much slower than usual, right?  This is generally a sign of low voltage
in the electrical system.
 
>The battery reads just over 12 Volts with the engine off

12.6 V DC with no load on the battery is fully charged.

>but if I get the engine running (the garage is on a hill so it's easy 
>to start) the voltage reads ~9 volts.

Something is wrong.  If you're not running any lights or anything -
just the coil - the voltage at the battery shouldn't drop off that
fast, especially since you push started it.  Muir claimed that you
could run "most all day" with a good battery and a bad generator,
which means the voltage shouldn't fall off that fast.

Did you check the ground strap at the transmission nose cone?

>By the end of my futzing around, the voltage while the engine was 
>running was down around 6 volts or so.

No good!

>If I pull the fan belt off and disconnect the red and green wires,
>hook up the Volt meter to ground and the red post and spin the
>generator with my hand, I read about 1-3 volts and it varies with
>the speed it is spinning (engine off, just me spinning it)

That mostly proves that there is a little residual magnetism in the
field coils, and that the rotor and brushes are working at a basic
level.  If you ground the green wire to the generator case and take
the same measurement, it'll be harder to spin but you'll get a little
more voltage as now you're exciting the field coils and making a
bigger magnetic field for the rotor to spin in.

>By the end of me playing, if I pushed the tipper started and then
>turned on the headlights, it would kill the engine!  But with the
>engine off, the battery still reads ~12 volts.

Sounds like a bad battery.  I've had a few like this; they read 12
volts under no load or light loads, but as soon as you put a big
load on them (headlights, starter motor), the voltage would collapse
to 6 volts or less.  I had one in a Chevy that would even still run
the headlights but not the starter motor - when I hit the key the
voltage collapsed from 12 volts to about 4 volts.

You checked the water level in the battery, right?
 
If you have a battery charger, take the battery out of the Bus and
put it on the charger until it's charged up.  While it's charging,
unhook both of the wires from the generator and tape them up
separately.  When the battery is ready, put it back in the Bus.
Measure the voltage with nothing turned on; it should be 12.6 volts
or more.  Turn on the headlights, wait one minute, then check the
voltage again - if it's still north of 12 volts, OK, but if not,
bad battery.  Turn the headlights off and hook up the voltmeter
so you can watch it while you or someone else tries to start the
engine.  If the engine cranks and the voltage doesn't get any lower
than 8 or 9 volts, the battery is OK.  If the engine doesn't crank
and the battery voltage takes a dive below about 8 volts, it's
probably the battery.

If you don't want to do all this futzing with the battery, take
the battery out and haul it to the FLAPS; most of them can load
test it in the store -- the test they do is quite valid, but of
course they hope to sell you a new battery.

I think you'll find that once you get a good battery in there,
the generator and regulator will fall in line.  Right now they
are trying to charge a battery that doesn't want to be charged.

Matt Roberds


