Date: Tue, 20 Aug 2002 23:40:44 -0400
From: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: bugpack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Subject: compression

New results just in,,

My engine is actually running at 120psi compression,, slightly lower in the #3
cylinder.... but not the 25psi readings I was getting before!

Story

When I got the first low reading,, I calibrated the gauge with 2 or 3 others  to
verify that the gauge was accurate.... and it was... I can give you many reasons
why I just had to believe that gauge!
I also used the tester, and got good readings on other engines,, but my engine
tested out again at about 25psi
Also,, I could push my bus with out much effort,, with it in gear. This told me
that my engine didn't have much compression,,, The power drops off on hills,,,
etc.
Many folks urged me to double check the tester , as the results were tooo
low...... and I agreed, 

This time, I calibrated it with almost the entire tool in the test ,not just the
gauge,, same results,, accurate gauge, accurate tester, but now I am looking at
an engine that should have good compression. So I was confooosed!

All along I was unsure about the readings,, but I felt that I had check
everything to do with the gauge to be confident to trust it.

I was just about to buy a new one,, as I had a feeling something was still
wrong,,, but I saved my money.

This weekend while at Buses of the Corn campout here in TORONTO... I was trying
to do a leak down test, and compression test,,, and started to question / prove
my results,, when Phil Gowdy offered to lend his tester to compare mine,,,, and
this showed up the problem.  His showed the proper readings,, about 120 psi!

My gauge has a schraeder [sp?] valve in the plug adapter that seems to restrict
the air inlet,, If it is removed ,, you can see the gauge bounce up to about the
120 reading,, but it goes right back down ,,,as that valve is supposed to check
valve the air in the tester,,,,, but not restrict the air inlet??

Still outstanding: even thought we replaced that schraeder valve with 2 others
,, the tester is still inaccurate!

Also,, We couldn't accomplish the leakdown test as I couldn't find a way to lock
up the T4 in a Vanagon. 
I was able to do one cylinder,, it had 85% but you could hear some air bypassing
the exhaust valve.
Anyone have a suggestion?

Usually I place the e-brake on,, trans in gear,, and hold the alternator with a
wrench,, but the alternator nut wasn't accessible in this Vanagon,, and the
suspension torqed up just enough to allow the engine to rotate opening the
valves...
The next step would be to remove the rockers,,,

We were reluctant to touch the valves till we were sure how to adjust them ....
I have heard to adjust anywhere from 1/2 turn to 2 turns 
Can someone give me the low down on the hydraulic cam / lifter adjustments

Cheers!
-- 
Jamie Rivers
http://www.globalserve.net/~jrivers/2SLO2BAD-.JPG
