From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2002 09:15:16 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2]  S A V W

To be fair it is difficult to sense the personality from a few photos. Maybe
someone knew/knows what they were doing. Curious though that it was designed
in California. It does have that California look.

The absence of round headlights jumps out, and must have jumped out at
everyone connnected with the project. Probably just couldn't get them into
the design without making it look too forced.

The new Beetle really isn't the old Beetle at all, but its shape recalls the
Old Beetle. If the outside, but equally important the inside conveys a sense
of the Old Bus it could work. When you think about it, the rounded look of
today's minivan's -- Chrysler, Ford, Toyota -- have  come a long way  from
earlier boxy shapes to more and more resemble the rounded look of the Old
Bus.

VW, besides trying to evoke the Old Bus,  probably is looking to take a
healthy slice of the big fat mini-van market, by creating a van that
competes in power and comfort with the Town & Countrys, Windstars and
Previas of this world.

In truth there never can and can will be another Bus, part of whose charm,
even in Westfalia garb, lies largely in its Spartan qualities.

The PT Cruiser is no no more a '39 Plymouth than say a Ford Focus, which in
all respects save grill and body lines it more closely resembles.

Bring back the DC-7?  I don't think so. Bring back the romance of the early
days of flying? Now that would be something else.

If the New Bus can evoke the feel of freedom captured in the Old Bus and
some semblence of its lineage, then we may have something. VW may have made
a mistake in 1980 by going to the boxy look of the Vanagon, a too abrupt
departure from its 30-something year heritage of rounded busses. Perhaps the
New Bus is what the Old Bus would have evolved into over time if the
designers and engineers had been allowed to go forward gracefully.

John Rogers

70 CMPR








