From: "B R M" <jezzina(-at-)ctc.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2002 12:14:25 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2]  New Microbus ( S A V W )

> so whats next for the copy cats at the "new" VW? a retro Ghia?
>
Nope , Ghia is a trademark of the ford motor company.

I have mixed emotions about the new bus, I think it is great that they want
to do a retro style but they seem to have forgotton the retro and the style,
Sure it has some lines of the split but it still looks modern.
Pricing is way off, They need to have a base model that is affordable as
well as deluxe versions.
I personally like the Eurovan. Its a big box , plenty of room , still feels
like driving a bus , a refined bus. unfortunatly VWOA never gave the EV the
chance it deserved. It was priced high , not promoated, and had limited
models available in the states, I would love to have a EV doublecab or
singlecab. Now that the EV design is at a decade old it is time to move on
to a new design. Unfortunatly it seems that this is what we are getting
stuck with this strange lookin van

All of ours busses are vans, thats what a motorized box on wheels is, a van.
There will never be another vehicle prodeced that has the same qualities as
our old busses have but the new bus is just another step forward in van
production. I think most people want VW to produce a van that is a throwback
because they want to have the same feeling in a new van that they get from
an old bus. That can never happen, The fact that our busses are going on 30
years and older is what gives us that feeling, the fact that our busses have
seen things that we can only imagine.They get more charater as they get
older ,more personallity and fewer people will be able to remember when they
were new adding a whole new mistique about them . This is something the new
bus doesnt have but eventually will have in 40 years.

When the new bus drivers wave and honk i will just wave back politely and go
on my merry way , in my old bus.

-Bryan
65 singlecab
75 campmobile


