From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: T2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2002 09:40:02 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2]  New Microbus ( S A V W )

  Porsche tried the front engine thing and failed (924,944 and 928) notice
that a REAL Porsche is still rear engine, They even still look like an OLD
PORSCHE (911).  If you took the NEW Microbus parked it in a lot and asked
people what it was they would probally say Toyota. We know what it is only
because we have followed it from Concept. Joe public has no clue. If you
read the artical about the NEW Microbus you will see that all VW cares about
is SALES and is trying to play on the emotions of the true BUS driver.
  The Eurovan has been a huge failure in the U S market and VW is scrambling
to get in the U S Van market (notice I said VAN and not Bus).
  In the L A design studio (I have friends that work there) they brought in
a split bus and other models for the designers to contemplate (they did the
same when designing the new beetle, a flop in Europe by the way). These lame
designers who have never driven a real bus (except for the guy there that
has the 911 powered Bay) has no clue. It is market driven and VW has not
followed suit of what real VW Bus people would like. 
  Hail to S A for building the Vanagon still, at least it STILL is a bus and
VW should quite trying to play on our Vintage/ retro emotions, it won't
work.

ronnie  old volks of az  (just my opinion)
split bus driver and many of them
 


-----Original Message-----
From: The Bus Depot [mailto:ron(-at-)busdepot.com]
Sent: Wednesday, August 21, 2002 9:13 AM
To: T2
Subject: RE: [T2] New Microbus ( S A V W )


> I never said that the new bus was trying to be the old bus.
> All I was saying was that people are going to
> think they are in the "club" of buses when all they have is a
> souped up Audi with none of the Bus heritage.

I beg to differ. The Volkswagen Transporter has been an ongoing product for
over 40 years, despite its different incarnations. Here in the U.S. we tend
to differentiate between the "bus" and later forms of the Transporter like
the Vanagon and EuroVan.  But that is only because they were marketed that
way to us.  We got different names, like Microbus, Station Wagon, Vanagon,
EuroVan, for each successive incarnation of the Transporter.  Not so the
rest of the world.  There, every VW van from the 60's on to this day has
been a Volkswagen Transporter.  And in many cases, the changes throughout
the years were evolutionary, not revolutionary - from the the T2
transporter (our "bus") to the T25 (our "Vanagon") to the T4 (our
"EuroVan"), to the T5 ("our New Microbus").

So when did it lose its bus heritage? Or, for that matter, did it?  The body
style change from Bus to Vanagon was not that much more dramatic than the
change from splitty to breadloaf, and the Vanagon remained aircooled and
rear engined, so it would be hard to say that the "heritage" was lost in
1980 when the Transporter's second body style change occurred.  And adding a
water jacket to a Beetle engine to create a watercooled Transporter was
hardly more than evolutionary either, given that the van still had the same
body, a rear mounted horizontally-opposed flat-4 engine, poptop camper
availability, etc. as the prior year's aircooled version.  So it would be
hard to say that the 1983 watercooled version was devoid of bus heritage.
So did it lose its Bus heritage when the engine moved to the front?
Perhaps.  But even then, it maintained VW's philosophy that the engine
should always be over the drive wheels, so it became front wheel drive while
most full sized vans were rear wheel drive. It continued VW's tradition of
offering a poptop camper option.  Its handling still remains far closer to
the responsiveness of a bus than to the mushy feel of most American vans.
And it certainly retains its share of odd quirky idiosyncrasies that make
all of the Transporters a challenge to own and maintain. :-)   I would agree
that the T4 (EuroVan to us) is certainly the farthest removed from the
original bus, and bears by far the least resemblance (as might be expected
40 years down the road).  But I wouldn't go as far as to say that it is
completely devoid of the bus heritage.

>> Like the New Beetle, the New Microbus will likely cause a
>> resurgance of interest in the original Bus.  For a while, this
>> will result in an increase in the popularity (and, incidentally, the
>> resale value) of old busses...

> How does it help me when I am looking at a bus now that
> is $1000 but it will be $3000 in 3 years just because some yahoo thinks it
would be
> really cool to do up a 73 just like his new 2004 VW "microbus".

Obviously, increased resale value can be either good or bad, depending on if
you're buying or selling. Of course, most people on this list already own a
bus, so increased value is likely to benefit them.  When you put so much
money and effort into fixing/restoring/maintaining your bus, it is nice to
see it hold its value or maybe even appreciate a bit.  Yes, you may pay a
little more if you buy another one, but you'll also be able to sell your old
one for more, so it is probably a wash.

That said, I really doubt that $1000 busses are going to become $3000
busses.  That's what I meant when I said that the impacts caused by the New
Microbus (if any) would probably not be "huge."  I could certainly see a
$1000 bus becoming a $1500 one, though.

>>  This trend toward reduced parts availability is already well underway
>> with splitty parts, and will happen with later bus parts as well (as it
>> does with parts for any vintage car whose numbers on the road
>> are declining).

> This is true also, but you can still find parts for MOST cars that people
> collect.

Sure, but at what price, and with what ease?  I'm not saying that you won't
be able to get parts for old busses,  just that as the vehicles get scarcer,
parts become harder to find and more expensive. Gradually you're going to
need to rely more and more on specialists like myself, because it will reach
a point where the local FLAPS is no more likely to have brake shoes for an
old Bus than for an old DeSoto.

> Bus owners have always been viewed as Hippies and
> losers, now is a good chance to show we are normal
>  everyday people who just love the old buses.

In fact, VW is already rewriting the history of the old Bus.   In a recent
press statement, Volkswagen said that the original Bus "was never intended
simply as a means of transport, but as a cultural icon."  Huh?  Quite to the
contrary, the Bus was indeed intended simply as an affordable means of
transport, just as the Beetle was - a larger version of the People's Car,
that could also transport cargo.  Even today's lower-end VW cars (such as
the New Beetle, Golf, or particularly, the Polo in Europe) could be said to
retain that philosophy to some extent, hence their mass popularity
worldwide.  But somewhere along the way, as Transporter prices in the U.S.
edged toward $30k (much higher than elsewhere in the world), our U.S.
version of the Transporter lost that philosophy.  Ironically, one could
argue that is in this loss of "people's car" philosophy, more than any
change in the product itself, where the Transporter has lost the the most of
its "Bus heritage."

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  (215) 234-VWVW
  www.busdepot.com

_
