Date: Tue, 26 Oct 2004 11:28:25 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: mark_reed(-at-)pennunited.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Toolkit for bus pickup trip

I got a Type IV oil cooler block off plate from BAS. From there I ran the supply hose to the stock cooler relocated under the car using another BAS plate to add lines to the stock cooler. On the return line I ran it through a CB Performance thermostat. When the oil was hot enough it would divert to the aux cooler. It is one of those flat plate type coolers with a fan piggyback on the back. The return line from the aux cooler went back to the thermostat. 

Worked well and towing was not a problem from an oil temp concern. I also had a 1.5 qt. oil sump on the bottom of the engine to add more capacity to the oil system and to help on mountain roads when I drove hard. A few times I saw the oil light flicker on my stock Beetles if I enthusiastically exited the interstate or took a mountain curve too hard. With the engine in back, it seems to me that physics is more of a concern than on a front engined car. Distance from the pivot point of the turning vehicle - the front wheels being the pivot point. 

I too plan to build a trailer for my travels. It will be a replica of a Westfalia trailer. Dunno if it will have a popup tent, a cooking arrangement, or just act as a big trunk (most likely). Should be an easy way to carry the bikes, our bags, shopping, Christmas gifts, etc. Most of my family drives biggish cars or pickups and we don't so I always try to demonstrate our "alternative lifestyle" with a smaller car. No need to drive a Hummer just a for a few occasions a year... My wife's family doesn't say anything but my sister thinks we're weird. Nothing new. She has thought the same since she was born... <grin!> 

Chris

-----Original Message-----
From: mark_reed(-at-)pennunited.com
Sent: Oct 26, 2004 10:30 AM
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Toolkit for bus pickup trip


Do you run the second cooler in line, after the stock cooler?  I have
considered a setup like that,  although I currently plan on keeping the
stock oil cooler in the upright fan shroud location, like a type 1 .....

I plan on pulling a small "camping" trailer ..... similar to Greg's
Westrailer.  I live in western PA, and every camping trip involves
traversing mountains, hills, ridges, in one form or another, to get
anywhere.  In the dead of summer, oil temps occasionally have gotten 220,
240, etc, with the DP 1600 and no trailer.  I guess we will see how the
upright conversion goes alone and with trailer, prior to any additional
cooling.....

Thanks for the info!

Mark

-------------------------

<<<<<<I have the Cali book and recommend after doing a BAS 911 conversion
instead (www.ahnendorp.com) to simply relocate the cooler under the car to
catch air when the car is moving. I relocated the stock cooler down there.
I also used a CB Performance thermostat to limit flow to a second
cooler+fan with electric thermostat (big flat stacked cooler) for idling
and city traffic. Cooler, fan and thermostat was spotted once at Pep Boys
too.

No pressure problems apparently, and never any heat problems. The fan would
cycle in traffic after a July highway run.

Engine is/was in a '65 Beelte. Both coolers are outside the engine
compartment.

Chris>>>>>>>
