Date: Wed, 27 Oct 2004 16:55:12 -0600
From: Joseph Broach <joseph.broach(-at-)umontana.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: thermostat install/testing notes

Thanks again for all the help re: my thermostat install.  I found it's 
one thing to replace busted parts and quite another to replace missing 
ones!  If you're bored with the install notes, at least jump down to 
the road test section.

For those just joining, our '78 was missing all its thermostat 
hardware, though the rod and flaps were intact.  I lucked onto a mostly 
complete setup from a Porsche 914--all the bits save the pulley and 
some mounting nuts and bolts.  If you're wondering, I checked and the 
914 thermostat part number was the same as the bus, so is the bracket.

I tested the new/old stat in the oven.  We're avid breadmakers and so 
have a pretty accurate oven thermometer.  It didn't pass the Bentley 
test, but it was fully open just shy of 90 degrees.  As others have 
mentioned, the stat quickly begins to close.  Just turning off the oven 
and opening the door was enough to start it compressing.

I followed the advice in the archives and went to ACE in search of a 
pulley wheel.  Sure enough, there were lots of options for patio doors. 
  I went with a brass pulley OD 1 1/2" with (conveniently an M6 or 1/4" 
shaft hole).  The pulley wheel runs on ball bearings, so you can clamp 
it to the case without affecting its motion.  The pulleys were $6.99 
for a pair (hey, a spare!).  The only caveat is that the grease (fine 
for a patio door, I'm sure) immediately liquefied and ran out as the 
engine warmed up.  Otherwise, it mounts easily with an M6 bolt, looks 
nice, and does the job!

I happen to work in a bike shop part-time, so I naturally had to 
upgrade the cable.  There's no need to pay good money for that cheap 
stat cable with sloppy end that will fray on first tightening.  Ask a 
bike-buddy if he has any old shifter cables around.  These are 
die-extruded (stronger, less likely to fray or kink) and have much 
nicer soldered ends just the right shape.  Our shop sells them for a 
buck.

Others have mentioned the cheap cable clamp at the rod.  I think a 
cable clamp from a brake hanger would be much more friendly, but the 
stock seems OK for now, and I didn't have a free one around.  A fourth 
hand tool (for bike brakes) would make the adjustment a cinch.  It 
pulls and holds the cable while you tighten the clamp, but how often do 
you do this?

I had to adjust it so it wasn't quite closed completely to ensure it 
would let the flaps move fully into the cooling position.

ROAD TEST

So, the test drive today.  Ambient temp: 50 degrees.  I drove normally 
in town and down the highway at 60 and stopped now and again to check 
the flaps.  After five miles at 30 MPH, the fan shroud was still cold 
to the touch and the flaps were just starting to open.  Another 5 miles 
at 60 MPH and the shroud was still cool but flaps were about 3/4 open 
and opened fully as it idled.  10 more miles home in stop and go 
traffic and the flaps were again about 3/4 open and opened fully as it 
sat idling, fan shroud was lukewarm.  I read a lot in the archives 
while trying to decide how important the thermostat system is.  While 
not a conclusive test, my experience does show that the thermostat 
system is doing quite a bit back there.  Even at 50 degrees, it seems 
to open and close regularly with mixed driving, and it took more than 
10 miles of driving before the flaps opened completely (at idle).  It's 
a surprisingly responsive device, and I don't think I'll proceed with 
plan B, which was to rig up a "warm-up lever" to actuate the flaps 
manually from the cab for cold starts.  Sure wish there was a reliable 
source for these things.

As an aside, could anyone explain just how the flaps work in there?  I 
haven't been inside a VW engine since I was 5 and kind of hope it will 
be a while more before I do!  Next project is an oil change to 15-50 
Mobil 1 before winter comes on here in Montana.  With the 30 wt, I've 
been avoiding sub freezing days.

cheers,
joe broach
'78 Sunroof
"Blue Sky Bus"
