From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
To: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Oct 2004 21:19:52 -0700
Subject: CA smog: we're boned

What's the difference in the ASM 5015 and 2525? Again, referencing my former 
Vanagon which was 1.5%, I see they've dropped it to either 0.64 or 0.44. 
Regardless of which is a passing emission, it is considerably stricter. You 
may consider adding a catalytic converter to your system. A smog tech once 
told me that a new cat can cleanup just about whatever problem is occuring 
at the engine to clean you up for a passing test. Before I sold my Vanagon, 
I was also seriously considering installing it only for smog tests because I 
burnt one up shortly after the smog test because of too rich running. 
Another option: a 78 bus I may be inheriting has Oregon plates. We have a 
daughter in Oregon, and are considering registering it in her name. Calif 
law requires Calif registration within 30 days of arrival in state IIRC, but 
if I was stopped, I don't think they could do anything if I said it is our 
daughter's bus and it is here for me to work on. I work at the post office, 
and one of my customers maintains a PO Box in Oregon strictly for that 
purpose and has all his vehicles Oregon registered. I asked him about the 
requirement to register here within 30 days, and he wasn't worried about it. 
Another option is a California county with no smog requirement, such as Lake 
County. We go for the VW show every year: http://www.vwlakecounty.com/

I don't advocate avoiding compliance with the law, but I firmly believe that 
government governs best which governs least. As stated in a previous thread, 
I strongly disagree with the pollution numbers they are attributing to 
collector vehicles, and believe they manipulated the numbers due to 
political pressure from failing to meet smog goals as explained in a recent 
VW Trends editorial. To me this is becoming a "Boston Tea Party" level 
issue, and though I have sworn off vehicles 76 and newer, I feel for people 
such as yourself who have such wonderful smog year vehicles.

John

> Looks like they upped the limts in the ASM test ....It's official: we're 
> boned.
