Date: Thu, 28 Oct 2004 15:36:12 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Ben Timmons <drben54(-at-)earthlink.net>, type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] CA smog: we're boned - Advice needed.

<My wife thinks "sell the bus - the quicker the better".>

And all cars are bad so any legislation that forces them into the crusher is
GREAT!

I don't agree!

<However,  I need something that isn't laid up for a week or two at smog time
and
costing me hundreds a year.>

My '99 Honda CR-V was costing me $430 a month for 5 years. Paid off now.
That's ALOT of bus parts! From my stand point your bus is pretty damn cheap to
operate! So get a beater parts runner. A scooter or Honda 650cc motorcycle
works pretty good... New is NOT always better. It is DEFINITELY more
expensive. May not break of course but it damn well better not at $400+ a
month! Funny how in '99 I declared that our '86 Accord was getting too
expensive to maintain when it cost a few hundred bucks a YEAR and the new one
cost $430 a MONTH. Haha, I won't make that mistake twice... Our bus cost me
NOTHING for the 2-3 years i drove it daily. It required shocks and oil changes
but aside from that... NOTHING! Tune it up and get the exhaust clean. Drive it
and be happy. YOU ARE NOT AUTOMATICALLY the worst thing on the road just
because your bus is old. It's this "gotta be late model or it's too
dangerous!" attitude. I love my ABS and admit the airbags are prob a good
idea, but my '99 CR-V and '97 VW Cabrio have not saved me from anything my Bus
would not have. Yes sudden accidents happen of course. The most important
safety system in the Bus is the nut behind the wheel.

<I now need to drive my bus every day.>

So add a vintage Beetle to the stable or another bus and keep minimum
insurance on both to keep the costs down. When one is broken, drive the other.
Eventually BOTH will be A+ and you can be happy. My vintage cars are no less
reliable than they were when they were new as long as they have been
maintained to very good standards.

In 1978 do you think people worried about driving a 1977 Bus 40 miles? Why?
Because it was new? So make your bus new... The cheapest way to do it is to
replace grease, seals, bushings, etc. before they fail. Those supplies are
cheap! Do it before they fail when the weather is nice and you have enough
cash in your wallet. You can still rebuild a starter CHEAP. Still rebuild
wheel cylinders cheap. Still regrease bearings CHEAP. It's the broken, gotta
fix it today, hire a tow truck and mechanic that makes operating a vehicle
expensive.

I try to keep everything in VERY good shape and most often I get alot of
warning before I can't drive it anymore. My modern cars do too. My CR-V had a
rattling swaybar bushing for 9 months before I fixed it. My Cabrio's stereo
quit a month before I replaced the ignition switch (indicating the bad switch,
works now). My Bus's ignition switch went too (so did my Beetle's). Both got
hard to start. Couldn't seem to turn the key far enough. Then I could push
down on the key but I knew the end was coming... replaced them and was happy.

<Our family situation with a 19 year old starting to drive has put me
in the position where my "project bus" is now a "daily driver".>

Encourage him to buy his own vehicle! A Yugo sure is cheap! <grin!> Keep your
speeds low (55-60 mph) and keep all the maintenance up and you should be fine
for quite a while. Be religious about the mechanical health of your bus. Look
for leaks, listen for alien sounds, replace all the rubber parts that are
failing. Check those wiring connections. It's the same process I do with my
old cars. Drive them, look at everything often and eventually all the bugs are
worked out. It will seem expensive ($20 here and there) and time consuming -
prob something every week for a while... But eventually it will need little of
your money or time.

<Money is tight>

OH WE KNOW ABOUT TIGHT - see the CR-V payments above.... STUPID decision at
the wrong time. Wanted to sell it after 9 months. Kept it as a lesson in
economics and knew it would not be worth what I owed. Now I have a $11K CR-V
with 98K miles on it. fine. Planning on seeing 200K and would like to see
300K.

If you van is good mechanically, then it is prob the cheapest alternative
you've got. 1st, you don't have to spend cash on another vehicle. Busses
routinely last 200K-300K miles if they are cared for and don't rust away. You
WILL need multiple trannies and engines in 300K miles but if you can collect
these on the cheap and have a spare sitting in the shed, then you are that
much closer to being done with an engine swap after your current engine says
UNCLE! I like to have a spare engine that is READY. Drag out the old, install
the alternate, and fix the old so it is ready. Less pressure to get back on
the road, time to clean and paint, you can buy spares as you find bargains. I
also try to have spare distributors, carbs, alternators, trannies, starters,
whatever. 1 complete alternate drivetrain is optimum.

As time progresses you will be able to do anything and you will be a real
mechanic.  When I bought my first Beetle I could barely do an oil change. I
spent alot of time looking over my Dad's shoulder but for me doing it does the
teaching. In a week I could adjust points and valves. 2 weeks I could adjust a
carb, 3 weeks I could pull and engine, etc. Now 10+ years later I feel
confident doing anything but rebuilding transmissions. I still have to ask
questions and study my books before big jobs but that is what this list and
those books are for.

Find a VW friend (you are in CA - aren't they everywhere? <grin!>) that will
help you personally (in person) assess your vehicle! Ship that boy off to the
Navy so you can have your truck back! <griN!> I did a 6 year hitch...

Hang in there!

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L - "Dharma"
