Date: Tue, 10 Jul 2012 09:51:17 -0600
From: Avocado Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] hot running motor

Since we're talking about "running hot," I thought I'd share a recent  
experience.

I was about to drive from Pittsburgh to DC about two months ago, 240  
miles door to door, on a cool May evening.  It was Sunday and getting  
late, but I figured that was just as well as it would allow for some  
even cooler weather and a faster trip, as I tend to drive as much by  
oil temperature as anything.

Well, Lily desperately needed an oil change before I left, but it  
wasn't until the oil was drained that I realized: (a) I only had two  
quarts of SAE 30, and (b) nothing was open to get another quart, save  
a gas station that was kind of far away, and I'd have to bike there  
because ... well, there was no oil in my bus!

I opted to throw an old quart of synthetic in there that I had lying  
around, probably 5w-40 or some such, and figured I'd be fine for the  
trip.

Well...it didn't turn out that way.

About 80 miles into the trip, I started losing oil pressure at speed.  
Not a dramatic loss, but the pressure was trending downward and  
starting to approach 30 psi, which is generally my "pull over" point.   
The thing was: the temperature was still below 210degF.   Hmm...

The usual thoughts went through my head:

"Is my oil pressure sender being dodgy?  It occasionally has been, but  
this seems like a solid trend...."

"Is the oil temperature just not reading high enough because I'm using  
a sump sender and it's being cooled enough by ambient air?"

"What of the oil pressure relief valve...maybe it's stuck?"

"Oh wait...could it be that old synth oil I threw in there is ruining  
the lubricative properties of the oil...or just breaking down?"


I pulled over and checked my oil level, which I found to be fine.  I  
reached around the fan shroud to make sure nothing was caught in the  
fan... Nope. All good there.  I mused a bit while waiting for the bus  
to cool down, then drove to the next rest stop, oil pressure once  
again on the decline, this time with the oil temperature finally on  
the rise.

I managed to check the oil pressure relief valve in the parking lot of  
the rest area, going through 3 rolls of paper towels if not more, and  
an empty oil container, but managing to keep  oil spillage to a  
minimum. No dice: it was fine.

I nursed her back to DC after topping up with a heavier weight oil,  
cruising at or just below 3000 rpm and stopping periodically: a long  
night to be sure.

My best guess was that it wasn't the oil itself (although that wasn't  
helping and was probably dumb), but probably an overheating problem  
that I wasn't seeing due to a lag in oil temperature readings.

Well, last night I checked my valves and the #1 & #2 exhaust valves  
were very tight. I figure that was my problem, but I changed to a  
summer weight oil as well as a precaution (20w-50).  It had been  
almost 2000 miles since my last valve adjustment on an engine with  
about 30,000 miles on it.

We'll see the next time I take her out on a long run...

Stay cool and watch those gauges for trends, volks!

Cheers,
    Avocado Tom
    '67 Freedom Camper, Lily (1600SP, T-IV oil cooler, 356 pulley)
    '71 hardtop camper, in the midst of a turbo-diesel conversion

---
    "We are MoTown.  We are professionals.  We're here to get the job done."

---
     "We are MoTown.  We are professionals.  We're here to get the job done."
