Date: Sat, 14 Jul 2012 18:41:14 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fire protection

Seemed like I hunted high and low for one of these solenoids way back 
when and couldn't find them.

I found them this afternoon in 5 minutes. Just had to get the lingo right.

"Anti-theft fuel cut off valve" - just use your favorite search engine.

What is this? It's an electric solenoid valve that can be added to a 
vehicle's fuel system so that when the key is turned off (power removed 
from the solenoid) the solenoid closes stopping fuel flow. Easy way to 
add a kill switch somewhere that would allow the van to start and move 
but it would run out of gas before the thief got very far. What thief 
wants to argue with a cranky stolen car or van?

Am back working on our Westy. Front suspension done, pulling rear 
suspension tonight (I hope), all the doors off and stored for safe 
keeping so I can enter and exit the vehicle easier without banging the 
doors on something in our crowded garage, am checking on cracked 
fiberglass repairs from an Internet source (and I'll share whatever I 
find out, he's a fiberglass expert for a living).

Checking on fiberglass repairs, fuel system redesign for more fire 
resistance and crash safety, working out the details we want to the 
interior (nothing too original or permanent, just better details that 
match our needs).

Was watching a car chase on an older movie the other day and watched one 
of the crash cars spewing gasoline all over during a 
roll-over/jump/crash. Don't want that to be my bus in an emergency with 
my family inside. Also don't want to lose my bus to a fire 
after/during/before the restoration.

Am considering threaded fuel line connections, cut-off solenoids at the 
bottom of the gas tank, welding in new threaded outlets if the original 
ones won't match up with the solenoids I am looking at, and possibly 
moving the fuel pump from an under the tank pump to an inside tank 
solution like a more modern vehicle.

We have a local auto parts store that can make custom swagged hydraulic 
lines - the type that have a crimped on threaded connection at the ends.

The problem as I see it is the whole VW bus fuel system is a gravity 
feed situation. If the fuel line before the fuel pump separates, then 
the whole tank of fuel is potentially dumped onto the hot, sparking 
engine - thus the solenoid upgrade. Don't want to dump ten gallons on a 
fire. Ya know?

If the lines break after the fuel pump, then there is a chance that 
switching off the key will stop the flow through the pump but I expect 
some fuel would continue to dribble through and burn. I want a positive 
stop of fuel. Top loading fuel pump would fix that, so would the 
solenoids if they were mounted directly to the fuel tank.

I also want better hoses. Looks like the old fashioned hoses that our 
buses use are cracking and failing either due to the heat or the 
corrosive nature of modern fuel or ethanol (???). Not sure about the 
ethanol but that's something there now that wasn't there when these 
vehicles were new so I'm going to pick on it... ;)

At the very least I'd want all new hoses plus proper clamps. My '78 uses 
push on gas tank vent hoses and they fail too potentially spilling fuel 
when the tank is full and the van is wobbling it's way up a mtn road. 
Ask me how I know? No fire but strong potentially explosive fumes. This 
old van is hauling my family - very precious cargo ya know?

I don't want to rely on braided hoses of any type where the braid might 
hide cracks. I want to see the problems, not have them hidden under a 
layer of woven string.

Another option is doing away with the factory fuel pump UNDER the gas 
tank. It would not be hard to relocate the fuel pump to inside the gas 
tank. The hot rod catalogs have several solutions available right off of 
the shelf. Then weld up the bottom fuel outlets completely. Now if the 
pump is off, the fuel flow is off no matter what and no solenoids are 
necessary. Then add clamps to the renewed vent hoses and check the 
yellow plastic vent tubes for brittleness - or replace the as well with 
something newer and threaded at the ends.

I was looking over pictures of burnt buses and crashed buses last night 
and it all gives me the willies. These aren't the safest of vehicles 
(though better than they often get credit for) so why not upgrade what 
can be upgraded to increase their safety a little? There was a story 
elsewhere on the web of a bus that lost traction on icy highways and 
swapped ends a few times and then did a barrel roll or several with one 
of the occupants knocked out (not trapped but not aware he needed to 
exit the vehicle quickly). Inside the bus was spilled campfuel and a lit 
candle. He did get out safely but the potential for disaster was large. 
I'm thinking we'll do away with out under floor propane tank and switch 
to the small disposable canisters and a single burner stove for our 
roadside coffee. Or a single inside burner for out coffee/tea/hot 
chocolate powered by an inside cabinet disposable canister held by a 
bracket. Leave the shiny powdercoated propane tank outside for looks, 
just cap it off.

I'm going to equate the importance of the fuel system integrity right up 
there with brakes. Would we go out driving with working brakes on three 
wheels? Or two? Would we knowingly operate a pre-67 single circuit 
braking system on the modern roads when the upgrade to dual circuit 
brakes is so simple? I'd hope not - especially when we ought to want our 
family/friends to be safe, the other drivers on the road with us to be 
safe, and our investments (our cash cows, -errr vans...)

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy
'65 VW Beetle
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
'99 CR-V AWD EX 5MT (235K miles)
Brenderup 1205S
