Date: Mon, 16 Jul 2012 10:10:12 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fire protection

Maybe I'm talking to myself here (GRIN!) but for the sake of the 
archives in case my computer crashes I wanted to mention that I found a 
generic motorcycle vacuum actuated fuel shutoff for motorcycles that 
ought to work for any carb'd buses.

Pingle makes them and they do have rebuild parts available for them too. 
5/16" fittings on it. I want to measure the fuel lines under the tank to 
see if how 5/16" fittings compare to the stock VW lines. I think they 
are nearly the same - going on memory alone. I could use brass barbed 
fittings and hoses along with the better clamps (i.e. not worm gear 
clamps that are rough on the rubber hoses).

If you ever ran the carbs dry, maybe I'd have to prime the valve open by 
sucking on the vacuum line, maybe not. Maybe the engine just rolling 
over would be enough. Gone would be the electric theft protection option 
unless I reached in the engine bay and removed the vacuum hose that ran 
forward to the fuel valve.

I also sent Mikuni Heating a question about an electric solenoid valve 
they list. Is it rated for gasoline? Says it is rated for diesel but is 
diesel as corrosive as modern gasoline? Their website is somewhat 
incomplete but I like the valve.

Anyhow, am going to cap off one fuel outlet on my FI gas tank with a 
threaded cap, run the other side through a cutoff valve mounted very 
close to the tank, then a filter, and then an electric rotary pump from 
our local FLAPS. I think Holley makes (sells something generic made in 
China, branded with the Holley name) a low pressure pump appropriate. I 
am inclined to use steel fuel line from the tank to the solenoid valve 
at least. Everything gets clipped to a frame rail so no vibrations.

Engine stalled, engine off - no gas flow. Will also add the Borg-Warner 
low oil pressure switch that was listed in the Corvair in-tank pump 
conversion PDF that I listed last night. May also add an inertia switch 
as well from an old Ford. Everything can be bypassed in case of a 
roadtrip failure until i can buy a replacement part.

Might make the second gas tank outlet formerly used by the fuel 
injection a petcock gas tank drain. Not a quarter-turn ball vale but a 
petcock. Have put them in hot rods we've built. Nice to be able to drain 
a tank without fussing with a hose that glued itself to the fuel line 
(and I like fuel lines that glue themselves to the fuel lines in most 
cases).

An external pump allows me to do roadside repairs unlike an in tank pump 
which would require an access panel to be cut in the bus or the tank 
removed.

On a Transvair conversion to get the tank out, the engine needs to come 
out (just like stock VW) and on my van b/c I did not cut the van in any 
way, it is easier to drop the transaxle too as a unit. This isn't hard 
or complicated but it isn't a happy roadside type task b/c the shifter, 
VW axles/CVs, and a few bolts on the front mount needs to be removed as 
well just like when dropping the VW engine and transaxle as a unit.

Am cleaning the van out, reorganizing the garage to make it a more 
efficient place to work, cleaning it all up. Am working on E, F & G 
while thinking ahead to J, K, & L.

Our kids are excited beyond imagine and asking 1001 questions, eager to 
to be good little helpers. Last night we spent the pre-bedtime half hour 
on YouTube watching Westfalia videos. The guy in England with the clean 
CA '78 Champagne Edition was the best for our fascinated kids b/c he 
showed all the little camper interior details and my wife got to hear 
the little sewing machine sounds coming from the stock engine (she loves 
those sounds and is not entirely on board with the Corvair implant yet, 
I can always go back to VW power easily). ;)

Chris in TN
