Date: Tue, 17 Jul 2012 09:38:39 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] oil gallery plug taps

Well I responded just to Mike earlier, but here it goes.

Drill 1/8" or so
hole in plugs (whatever fits your small slide hammer screw tip.)  Pop them
out.  Some will just fall out some will be bears, it is not always consistent
location to location from case to case, so you can't just trust only doing
some or the others, you need to do SOMETHING to all of them.

That said, as I
told him, I've experimented peening them then pulling them, and all of them
will be quite tight when adequately peened, so...  I'm not saying not to tap
them, but I'm saying if you F up the case and have to go have one welded up,
you decide if your time and money was well spent.  I presume for instance Bob
Donalds who was my benchmark for a realistic quality
volume re-builder probably peened his T4's as I'm sure he didn't waste the
time and money having one of his guys tap them (Bob was too cheap to even pop
to have his cases pressure cabinet washed 8-)  Certainly all the reasonable
low cost volume T4 re-builders just peen them or do nothing, now sure people
who sell you $10k engines don't, but they better not for that money.

Anyway,
if you are set on this path pull the plugs.  If you haven't now give the case
a first wash, break out the fume free Easy Off, saturate all the dark black
stuff (but don't let it dry on the case) and give it all a good scrub in hot
water with a pinch of TSP  in the laundry sink.

Let it dry, inspect the case
to be sure worth it, in home rebuild this amounts to gauging how bad main
bearing web fretting is (some OK but shouldn't be a lot on a T4 case), mic'ing
the main bores, then plastigauging a good (reground) crank in place as a trial
assembly.  About all you can do at home, and I'd do it all before I wasted a
couple hours tapping the galleries.  If OK, get ready to tap.  Need plugs you
choose to use at hand, so you can set depths.  Aluminum preferentially (don't
have to be anodized but they are pretty), brass as second choice, steel last
choice (try to match expansion rates.)  Should be hex socket head whatever you
choose, flat driver head OK to get in, but you may never remove them again
depending on sealant choice.

The reamers, not necessary, just real, real damn
helpful.   If you consult a machinist handbook you will notice the proper way
to drill for a tapped NPT hole is to "step drill" it at a couple diameters to
a couple specified depths, or ream it.  Straight drilling it to an average
dimension is a compromise.  This gets confounded due to what you are facing
already there.  The gallery drillings will be much smaller than the size for
straight drilling but the counterbore for the plug will be much larger.
 Depending on how long/how much taper is built into your tap, this can make it
very hard to start the tap square and have it run true.  NPT taps are usually
plug taps with little "starting" taper and can be very hard to start in this
situation.  The NPT reamers ream to desired taper (will ream the counterbore
nearly out) and permit clean easy starting and threading the whole depth, they
will still need to be straight drilled (to a small size) a bit
 into the galleries to start.  Are they needed, no, are they nice, you bet
you.  Will it cost more than $55 to have one TIG'd up if you F it up, you bet
you it will.   Now when I bought mine they were only about $30 for the two
which seemed at lot more reasonable so YMMV, you can do without.

Tap the
holes with aluminum thread cutting oil, no grease, why would you want to put
grease anywhere, it will just make the chips harder to get out.  And you are
going to have a mess of aluminum from drilling or reaming anyway.  Kerosene
mixed with light oil (or WD40) is fine for cutting aluminum in a pinch, you
 can pay for better but not likely worth it.  You need to tap until the plugs
are flush, most can go a smidge deep, but you have to look at the crossing
gallery drillings.

There are a lot of plugs, if you are going to do one, best
get them all of course.  The pump suction side does not need disturbed in a
T4, unless you are modding the case for dry sump 8-)  You could mix and match,
for instance the small one on the side of the case is a bear to do, and is
usually very tight in my experience, so often I peen that one.

Blow the case
out with air countless times, wash it again in the laundry sink, hot water,
pinch of TSP, then take it to the car wash, blast it all out, then either
rewash it in the sink, or pop for pressure wash cabinet at your favorite
engine machine shop (usually $25-40 or so) as unfortunately the EPA killed
cold tanks.  You want to be able to eat off the case when done.  If in a real,
real corrosive environment you could alodine it, +/- mask and paint it BTW,
but for the most part not needed.

Install plugs with your favorite sealant, I
tend to use the same orange Loctite 574 jointing compound I use for the
parting line, avoid tasting it though it smells so yummy, available most
bearing supply places for $18/50ml tube.

As general alternatives you can pop
them all and have all of them welded up, or peen them.

I do truely think that
for a stock pressure and volume pump (not the giant old iron bodied melling
monster) unless you are running 40-50 weight on a 20F day, peening is probably
sufficient, and have built a ton of engines that way.  But if one lets go, it
is certainly the engine, so I'm not debating tapping them isn't better, and
don't yell at me if a peened one lets go.

John
________________________________
 From: Joe Average
<joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>


So what is the procedure? Drill the plugs with
a 1/8" drill, pop them out with a slide hammer, ream them to a certain size
and then tap that? Install threaded plugs with Loctite? Why not drill to the
size specified by a drill/tap chart? Not trying to be ornery, just trying to
learn something. Dip the taps in grease to catch the chips?
