Date: Sun, 26 Sep 2004 19:52:45 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Am I hosed?

initial symtoms:
engine is loud. louder than usual. not much power on any inclines -
worse than usual, and especially bad in 4th.

Saturday morning, I had the day to run through the usual valve
adjustments, timing settings, oil change, replace a leaking muffler
gasket. I was going to replace fuel lines and adjust the brakes too. I
got the passenger-side (#'s 1 & 2) adjusted fine. They didn't really
re-adjust, they were pretty close already. Moved to the driver's side.
I went to check the exhaust on #3 and the rocker acted funny - like
there wasn't a pushrod there. Double check the location of the engine
by eyeing the dizzy location. Yep, it should be set to fire, but the
pushrod isn't pushing back against my pressure at all. Feeling a little
freaked out since the intake was ok, I rotated and tried  #4. The
intake valve had the same problem, but the exhaust was fine. Rotated to
#1, re-opened the passenger side to make sure I knew what I was doing,
and they were dead on. So... I checked compression. In my freaked out
state, I did the test wrong (didn't pull all plugs, just the one I was
testing). The numbers were very low (60's on 3&4, 90's on 1&2), and oil
squirts didn't effect the readings. This was not surprising, but
confirms that #'s 3&4 are unhealthy. I figured the numbers were
probably much lower all the way around as I didn't have the system open
correctly. Depression took over, so I put my tools away at this point. 

Like the subject line says, "am I hosed?" My conclusion is my engine is
effectively toast, and I need to either rebuild it, or buy a long-block
from somewhere. I trust the collected smarts of the list, so I pose the
question to you: Do I need to replace the motor or are there more tests
(like re-running the compression test) I need to conduct first to be
sure? Myopically hopeful, maybe? Anyway, if it needs rebuild or
replacement, I guess there are a bunch more questions like "are there
any good rebuilders in Portland, OR that you would personally recommend
to your mom?", "has anyone run an aircooled.net / BusDepot / Raby /
BostonEngines / etc motor that they'd recommend same?", etc...

Thanks in advance and I'll be back online tomorrow,
Paul Manning - mentally preparing for 2 hr. mass-transit commute in the
morning.
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy - more like Sad, now)
