From: "Joe Fournier" <joe(-at-)volks.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 12 Oct 2001 05:22:35 -0700
Subject: FRI: Another Terminology Rant - Horsepower

Joe Clarks' concerns over terminology, coupled with Jeremy's concern over
power, have brought to mind another badly chosen term that perhaps we should
consider changing. Yes, I do mean "horsepower." While I know the rest of the
world uses the term "horsepower" in describing their vehicles, our cars, as
has been noted, are not really cars; they're Volkswagens, so we can be
different...as further evidenced by my lust for an early "ragtop" bus--sorry
Joe, no offense meant.

I got so tired of big-muscled dudes bragging about their 450 horses under
the hood that I had to quit hanging out with big muscled dudes. Now, as I'm
again thinking of moving (using my bus, of course), I'm realizing that I
wish I were friends with more big-muscled dudes.

Imagine how impressed they'd be if I told them my bus' power rating was more
like 60,000 compared to their measly 450. Of course, we might use a
different unit, but I don't have to tell them that, and as long as nobody
takes away their steroids, they might not notice that I'm talking about
squirrel power. Yes, squirrel power; that's what I said--SP!

There are many advantages to using squirrels as the power rating for buses.
Think of it. We could refine our power ratings to a more specific number,
such as 61,229. Also, your RPM could go up dramatically, since you can put a
squirrel in a cage with a wheel. The squirrel can turn the wheel waaaaaaaay
faster than the horse can run around that little horsey ring thing inside
the fence. So, with SP as our rating we could probably like quadruple the
RPMs, even with a sick squirrel.

Got a 40-horse bus with a hole in the roof that you want to sell on eBay? No
problem. It takes about 1000 squirrels to carry a chase a horse across a
field, so what you're really talking about is a 40,000 squirrel-power
ragtop, dude!

Yeah, so we're different. That's not news to horses OR squirrels.

Thanks!

Joe
(72 Riviera, 72,612 SP at 12,642 RPM)

