Date: Sat, 13 Oct 2001 08:55:14 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] "Tune-up's" was:Horsepower question

At 08:40 AM 10/13/2001 -0500, you wrote:
>
>Guys,
>
>They drove in, wanted a "tune-up" and valve adjustment and
>then wanted to pick up their car and drive on...

You can agree to do what the owner wants if you wish. I, however, explain
to these people what the vehicle needs. If they change their mind and agree
that's what they want, only then will I agree to service their vehicle.
Otherwise, I am happy to refer them elsewhere. I simply refuse to waste my
time and the owner's money with compromise. If they have no appreciation
for my attitude, such is life, and it bothers me not one iota. I can easily
fill all my time doing all my work my way on my terms with no advertising
whatever except word of mouth referals.

Case in point. Yesterday afternoon I get a call from an unknown potential
client with a 528e BMW. I agree to meet him at the shop. 196k on the
odometer. After introductions he asks for a "tune-up". I ask, "How long
have you owned the car?" Answer, "4 years." 

Where have you been having the vehicle serviced? .....It's been running
fine till now so it hasn't seen a shop in 4 years.

Do you have service records from the prior owner? ......No.

Why do you feel you need a "tune-up"? .....Well, the idle is unstable. I
just had XXX shop put in a set a plugs and it still runs poorly. I think it
needs spark plug wires. (Note he just said before it hadn't been to a shop
since purchase. Takes a bit of probing to get the facts.)

Did they do a compression test? ....Yes.

Did they write down the results? ....No.

I tell him, "It's not data if you don't write it down!!!!!!" He paid for
the test but did not get the RESULTS. 

So I explain in detail a number of things. The difference between
maintenance by inspection and "tune-ups". The required Bosch silver tip
plugs for this specific engine. I know for a fact that XXX shop hasn't a
clue about this. The several possible causes of unstable idle with this
particular design and yes, a set of Champions is one thing that can do
this. I will test the HT wires and only replace them if they show
unbalanced/excessive resistance or insulation leakage. A maximum of 2 hours
to diagnose the problem. Might take 10 minutes. 

I also point out the cooling system coorosion, non-spec coolant, non-spec
oil filter, black brake/clutch fluid, filthy coil that could be causing low
spark energy, the fallacy of the maintenance inspection indicator lights
(not "tune-up" indicators) on these Bimmers. He knows far more about this
specific vehicle now than he ever got from XXX shop, who advertise "80
point inspection with oil and filter for $29.95!!!" He is so happy because
he is now confident he has found someone who knows what he's talking about,
in detail, and will get RESULTS. We schedule the work for next Tuesday. 

On Tuesday it will take me 20 minutes to verify no vacuum leaks, listen to
the valves and idle control motor, then verify the oxy sensor responce,
spark energy and timing. Next will be adjustment of valves if they sound
unbalanced, then the compression test and if a cylinder shows weak, a leak
down test to verify the source of the loss. If the oxy is pegged lean/rich,
the exhaust manifold bolts with be checked for torque to insure no ingress
of air there to fool the oxy/computer, which is a problem specific to these
particular motors.

If after this work I haven't got results, then step by step through factory
engine maintenance inspection will be filled out in full. The invoice will
also show all other maintenance items due or overdue and REQUIRED if he
wishes to continue using my services in the future. He can go back to
screwdriver pokin' at XXX if he wishes. I expect he will follow up with me
as his budget allows, and I'll get 3 or 4 word of mouth referals in the
next year from him.

 Would you do a
>compression test on a new vw with 8,000 miles that the owner wanted a
>tune-up?....probably not.....

If the inspection schedule called for it, most certainly. If it's had
quicky oil changes with non-spec filters, yes. If I can see scuffed cam
lobes through the oil filler cap, yes. If all looks in order and documented
maintenance history is available and it is not yet due, no.

>What we have now is a "select" clientelle who love their vw's for
>what they are, not just a good mileage car.  Dr. Tim, I would have loved
>to have the kind of customers then that you have now, but what I had were
>people who wanted a bargain(tired of vw dealer rates) and still wanted
>their cars to run well and get good gas mileage.

Who selects the clientelle??? At my shop, it's me and only me. Those who
think that compromise is a bargain are refered to other shops, to my
benefit. Wasted money at XXX cannot harm my reputation. Only compromise at
my shop can do that.

>I always drove the cars before *and* after working on them to decide if it
>ran well...if it didn't, I pulled it back in the shop and found out
>why...even if it meant pulling the plugs again and doing a compression
>test.

If I cannot document the last compression test results I will do one.
Criminy, it only adds 10 minutes tops to a spark plug/valve adjustment
procedure. Pulling it back in the shop afterwards just wastes a bunch of
time/money. $8 bucks to do it right, at least three times that to do it
belatedly.

>You guys keep doing compression tests...I will too....*now* is a different
>time from then...and the people who have VW's now probably take a lot
>better tender loving care of their cars than back then.

Some do and some don't, no different now than then.
T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

