From: TRIKEMAX(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 13 Oct 2001 20:02:07 EDT
To: bc(-at-)version3.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] locks

--part1_b2.1cef88.28fa2fff_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Bryan, don't waste your money on a locksmith on something you can do 
yourself. An old VW guru in S.C. showed me how. I've done it twice, once on 
my 71 Superbeetle, and the second on my 71 T2. If the ignition key is the 
same type as the door key you can make one key fit all. If the ignition key 
is of a different type then you will have to settle for two keys or replace 
the ignition. My SB had a new style replacement ignition with the round head 
and the doors had the offset head, so I got the ignition out of a junk Beetle 
in the bone yard, cost me two bucks. Pull the door handles, then remove the 
lock from the handle, stick the ignition key in the lock. You will see some 
of the little brass plates (tabs) sticking up, these must be flush in order 
to turn in the handle, do ya get the picture, just file them smooth. Stick 
lock back into handle check for smooth operation, if it is not smooth, then 
some of the tabs are not smooth (flush). re-check your work and test again. 
The draw back is now you have pretty much double your chance that someone 
else in the world (that means the entire planet) will have a ket to fit your 
bus. I went from four keys in my bus to one that fits all, and three keys in 
my bug to two and that's only because I put a new lock on the glove box. If 
ya try to remove all the little tabs (watch out for the little springs) and 
re-arrange them then good luck. I took mine apart to clean, and I sat them 
all in order of removal so I could get them back correctly. The little girl 
next door came over to see what I was doing and put her little hands on my 
workbench and pulled them all off. I found all the tabs and springs but it 
took me six hours to get the right combination. Next time I will put it up a 
little higher. I hope this will help you.

Max

--part1_b2.1cef88.28fa2fff_boundary--
