Date: Wed, 25 Sep 2002 18:46:09 +0100 (BST)
From: wallace.bob(-at-)btinternet.com
To: honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Jumper Cable -> Cig Lighter

Hi Barry,

Well you can go into your flaps and buy a cable which will connect 2 cars via their cigarette lighters, but you cannot use it for jump starting (built in high current cut out)rather just for charging the battery of the second car, then after 10 minutes you can try starting the second vehicle from its own battery.

I was given one for Christmas by a relative, but have never taken it out of the box (except to look at it). I think they are deigned for use of people who don't even know who to find the engine.

I think I would not be a happy bunny if someone asked me for a jump start then produced one of those which would take that length of time, as well as the cost of petrol. I don't think my neighbours would be happy with the engine at a high idle for ten minutes while a battery was being charged either, and if it doest catch then you have to do it again.

I think you would get better value for money from a 'proper' set of jump leads. Don't plump for the cheapest ones in the shop as they are often quite short and only of light gauge. The position of the T2s battery makes a longer set of leads much easier to use (mine are 16 feet). Over here the jump leads tend to be marked for "home", "light industrial" or "industrial" use (or similar phrases) - I suggest the middle grade so you can be happier about the ability for them to carry the current without over heating.

Don't forget that if you have a suitably specified leisure battery then you you can jump start from that (as its unlikely both will be out at the same time). I fit a heavy duty earth strap to the leisure battery then just one jump lead from positive to positive will get you going.

A practical alternative to jump leads is one of the portable 12 volt units which you can charge at home or on the move, but can be used for jump starting too. They have the advantage of being a portable 12 volt supply for other things too. The one I have can also be used as a mains battery charger. Down side of these is they do not have a large reserve of power and can usually only be used for one jump start before needing recharging.

Good luck
Bob Wallace
Bristol UK
1998 T2

> 
> A thought:
> 
> To jump start a vehicle, using another vehicle, a good procedure would be to 
> connect the two vehicles via the cigarette lighters.
> 
> Comments??
> 
> Is such a connection wire sold OTC at FLAPS??  Should/must it be 'fused'?? 
> How heavy a gauge wire should be used??  How long??
> 
> Barry sends
> (Man, I just GOTTA get a life!!)
> 
> [...] 
