From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 26 Sep 2002 23:11:02 -0700
Subject: "bulge" part

> There are no water drains in that piece.
> That's why it tends to rust there.

Actually, I was looking at that.. The Westy camper body that I bought for
$225 has a pretty good "bulge".. But the rear hatch and rain gutter were all
rusted out. I've never seen that before, but someone parked it and left it
under a pine tree.. The needles collected and rotted out the rear rain
gutter. The rain and water also dribbled down on the rear hatch and rusted
out the whole business.
So I think it works like this..
If your bus is usually parked facing uphill, the rear will rust out.
If it's usually parked facing slightly down, the window area and bulge will
rust out.
It's not really true that California buses don't rust.. They just don't rust
from the bottom up, like eastern buses do (road salt). They rust from the top
down.
California and west coast (west of the Cascades and Sierra Nevada ranges and
coastal mountains) get a lot of condensation, rain, drizzle, dew. There are
long times of the year times when I can look out every morning and see
everything dripping moisture.
All of the roof area collects water and condensation, too, and ports it one
way or the other, fore or aft. But if it goes to the front, then it just
follows the column right on down to the corner of the windshield and moves
along the edge of that bulge.. as well as whatever accumulates on the
windshield, and that's a lot, too!
If your front doors don't seal the water coming off the gutter will follow
the door column right down into the front seat floor areas, and those areas
tend to get real rusty, too.
Funny, because garages were originally designed to protect cars. But how
many of us have our garages filled with junk that ends up being tossed or
sold for a pittance.. And if we picked the right car, in good shape, and
garaged it, it might someday be worth a very nice sum.
Ah, well. You can keep a bus forever, anywhere, if you garage it. Even
California buses don't do that well if they're not garaged. I cannot garage
mine, but I thinking on getting some covers, or at least tarping them in
winter. And winter is coming!
Jan B
