From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 26 Sep 2002 23:26:29 -0700
Subject: Rust in engine intake area

Maybe someone can offer some tips on this..
I probably won't get to paint anything now until next year. I'm going to have
more important matters to attend to.
But I am already making plans, and there is one problem that I don't quite
know what to do about.
It's the rust inside of the engine air intakes (upper rear quarter panels).
Those areas must not have gotten much paint, and the condensation has rusted
them over about 75% of the surface.
Now, I'm not trying to restore mine in the sense of ultra original pristine
collectable quality. And I know that there is no way in heck that I'm going to
be able to get all of that out of there, short of cutting out the quarter
panel and putting on a new one.
It won't hold a coat of paint short of that, and there's little sense in
trying.
But I am thinking that if I put some kind of coating inside there with a
Hudson sprayer, it will at least stop the rust. I saw on one site, I think it
was the type2 site, where someone recommended applying "Barr oil" or the kind
of oil used on chainsaws, to the underside, rather than a conventional
undercoating. I am wondering if this would do a good job without looking
incredibly unsightly.
Or, there are rubberized coatings that are used for the tops of RVs.. The
trick would be to get whatever it is in a thin enough suspension that you
could get it into a hand held sprayer with a wand that could be reached down
in there and turned around to coat everything. No, I don't think the
rubberized stuff would get into all of the recesses good enough to really do a
good job.
I did actually find some stuff at a Homebase that was closing down, very
cheap.. Sticks excellent, and does eventually dry but remains tacky for a long
time. I wouldn't want to put this stuff on in a dust storm! It's too thick for
a sprayer, but flows easier when warm and may be able to be cut or diluted
with a solvent. This stuff is used for the pans and submersed parts of a swamp
cooler system.. protects sheet metal from total immersion conditions, 24/7. I
figured that this might do the job real well and would not be so bad-looking
as a backdrop to the painted grill over the intake.. The stuff is blacker than
the blackest night. I used some to recoat the pan that protects the accelator,
brake and clutch pedal assemblies under the buses (missing on most). It worked
really great, but it was a sticky mess for awhile. It would get hard at night
and sticky on a warm day, but finally stabilized.
Has anyone else ever dealt with this problem? Any tips?
Thanks..
Jan B
