From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2003 11:48:46 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] can anyone in CT helicoil ?

	Kevin wroted thusly:

	"...The exhaust studs are 8 mm, so we had to go up to a 7/16 drill,
redrill the phalange on the exhaust hole, as well as the stripped stud
hole."

	Dude - Sorry, but if you are drilling holes into your "phalanges",
you are going to spend an afternoon in the emergency room, you will be
spurting blood, and you will be saying some bad words - not necessarily in
that order.  The local longshoreman's union will probably call you to
complain about your potty mouth.  But if you are drilling holes in your
"flanges", you'll probably have a much funner afternoon...

	Furthermore, "...Since the studs only need 16 ft-lbs of torque, you
really only need 3 or 4 threads on the heli-coil to obtain enough strength.
We did this repair with the engine out, etc..."

	Are we talking Type 4 heads or Type 1 heads here?  If Type 4,
noooooooooooooooooooooooo!  I guarantee that if you do this job with only 3
or 4 threads contact with the helicoil, instead of making full contact for
the threaded length of the stud, you will be doing again in another season
or 2.  Except this time there won't be enough meat to support the helicoil,
and you'll be starting the quest for 8/9mm step studs, or the rare and
elusive 8/10mm step studs, and quite possibly 9mm and or 10mm helicoil kits.

	It's a sad sight to see when you may well indeed have to scrap out
(or invest in lotsa machine shop time) a set of gennie 914 2.0L heads,
because the 914s PO didn't get the studs fully supported and the helicoil
ripped right through the aluminum.  Measure the depth of the stripped hole,
transfer the measurement to your drill bit, double up on the number of
helicoils used such that the threads are fully supported, or better yet get
the "tall boy" version of the helicoils, or even better yet, use the
timesert stylie thingies...  Loctite and anti-seize will become your new
best friends.

	Get it RIGHT the first time, and it will likely be the only time you
have to do it.  Mess it up and you WILL rue the day you touched a wrench to
it.  Don't ask me how I know all this trivia...

	Jim Hayden
	Whole Mess of Type 4 Powered Air Cooleds
	www.savethebays.org
