To: "Eron Crites" <emcrites(-at-)msn.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2003 14:05:11 -0700
From: Stephen Diercouff <sgd(-at-)tfm.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] AFM adjustment of spring tension-how? 

> Mike Soultanian wrote:
> 
> "Instead of dealing with all of this ancient fuel injection, I got a
> megasquirt EFI.  Cost me about $120, less than a rebuilt AFM, and I can
> tune my entire EFI with a laptop.  It blows the l-jet out of the water
> and is a breeze to tune compared to the l-jet's "spring tuning."
> 
> Has anybody compared the cost, ease of installation, and longevity of the 
> Bosch CIS-E vs. the Megasquirt?  Who is it that has used CIS on this list?  
> Is escapes me.

You're talking apples and oranges here. Megasquirt is just an ECU ("brain")
while the Bosch CIS is a complete fuel injection system. Megasquirt can
control CIS systems -- folks are doing that -- but most people seem to go for
individual injectors. I'm putting a FI setup together with a MegaSquirt
ECU and a Bosch D-Jet setup off a Porsche 914. MegaSquirt ONLY works with
MAP sensors at this point, but that's no problem for me. I won't have to
worry about an expensive, finicky AFM getting wrecked if there's a little
backfire. The D-Jet system is MAP-based, but MegaSquirt uses its own
MAP sensor, so I won't be using the Bosch one. I'll be adding a 3 wire
lambda (O2) sensor as well, which is not part of the stock Bosch system.
Otherwise, I'll use the D-jet injectors, fuel rail, pressure relief
valve, temp sensors, runners, plenum, throttle body, and air intake.

I have most of the components here already, and will start work on the
MegaSquirt shortly. I'll be happy to post results and total cost when 
it's all done. 

BTW, this is on a '74 Westy with a not-yet-installed AVP rebuilt 1.8l
engine.

--Stephen

--
Stephen Diercouff, tfm associates, Eugene Oregon          voice: +1 541 461 8928
Internet:  sgd(-at-)tfm.com                                      fax: +1 541 461 8929
Snail   :  P.O. Box 2086/Eugene OR 97402-0031 USA

They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.  -- Benjamin Franklin
