Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2003 16:24:49 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: eric(-at-)bradway.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Even more alternator issues...

>Anything else I should have them check? It's got a new battery, started, VR. I
>really do need a new wiring harness from the alternator to the
>starter/battery. I just hope the local vendor has the parts!

Check that voltage regulator. I've got a local friend here in Cookeville 
that also has a '78 (Riviera) and it eats a regulator about once a year. 
These are from Advance Auto Parts here in Cookeville and the bus seems okay 
in every other way. I figure that Advance just sells a cheesy part and my 
friend likes to shop there. She buys them, I install them, and she's happy.

Advance will (used to have) the alternator but it's a special order item 
through their foreign auto parts catalog (Berkely, Binkley, something like 
that) - i.e. not necessarily in the computer - in the paper catalog. If you 
have a store operated by 17 year olds you might not have any luck as some 
I've met dunno how to look it up if it's not in the computer. See if 
they'll let you look it up in the paper catalog.

Usually overnight though.

Lastly there used to be an alternator / starter repair guy in Red Bank on 
Dayton Blvd. that was AWESOME with alternators, and such. He's moved 
someplace else in town but should be in the yellow pages. He might be able 
to fix you up quick but be sure to ask all the right questions so he 
doesn't think Monday is okay. If you can't find him (or somebody else like 
him, holler back and I'll ask Dad who that was that we used back then (late 
80's). He's worked on 2-3 of our cars there in Chattanooga. Mom and Dad 
still live there so Dad still knows the same people. I've been gone since 
1990.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
