From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2003 23:32:49 -0500 (CDT)
To: scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu (Chris Mills)
Cc: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com (George Lyle), wfp3(-at-)lycos.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] truckers, buses, PLF

To me half the fun of going somewhere in my Bus is to get pon old US 30
west--through all the small towns and burgs---seiing what this counrty
is all about--and with no fear of getting blasted by some yo-yo- on his
or her cell phone flying at 80---

If I'm in a hurry--the interstate is fine--in my 325 BMW---or even my 87
Westy--or my 85 GL---

The interstate'a give me the heebie jeebies--seeeing some Land Cruiser
blastng up my butt--at speed---
He has no idea how slow I'm going until he get there--and then there may
be no room for him to get around me without clipping off the rear
quarter panel as he at the last minute chops into the L/H lane--

No thanks Amigo's---me and my Bus will get our kicks on old route
66---:>)

Later,

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
I don't know about you guys out west--but here in the Windy--60 is like
having a boat anchor tied to your tail end--- 
Saw a late 70's baywindow from NY one time on the interstate in KY - was
painted all over telling something about snakes. We were in my Honda
CR-V running 75 - 80 with the traffic after adopting an English Setter
from a shelter in Paris, KY. 
He was running 55 mph, the traffic was running 75- 80 mph. I didn't know
why traffic had bunched up so badly until I saw the bus. I had to
chuckle because they looked like they were having so much fun. My kind
of people. Was a motivator in my quest for more speed through Corvair
transplants (in my case) so my flat land speeds would be about 65 mph
and my hill speeds (uphill) would not drop so much. Power, not speed. 
Wanted a lower speed differential between me and mine and the other
traffic. A bumper tap with a 10 mph differential is less traumatic than
a 30 mph difference. 
I so love our old VW's but like so many other vintage breeds the
interstate is almost too fast for them. (and too fast for my Cute-Ute
CR-V and my '81 Honda CB900C motorcycle). 
On our last trip to Nashville we ran 70 mph (speed limit) all the way to
the metro area where average speeds climbed a bit to something around 80
mph. I see the same in Atlanta. WOW. Civilian NASCAR. Chattanooga is
getting to be like that. Knoxville seems to run speed traps more often -
I at least see more tickets being written when we visit there. 
Chris Mills in TN
