From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2002 10:40:18 EST
To: bsnman(-at-)adelphia.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Newbie alert!

welcome to the list!  welcome back to the split bus scene.  there are lots of 
people here, a fairly noisey list.

Topics that cause strife : lowering- think the topic was banned for a while 
because of all the strife

It is a sort of subset of the custom vs. stock resto schism.  Though it seems 
that the stock resto freaks get a fair share of dissing  (you'll hear 
"vintage nazi" a lot for anyone who is not pro custom), not just the folks 
who make a DD slammed sunroof panel dressed up tart out of what had once been 
a decent honest working bus.   Of course you gotta look at the freak show, 
but jeez, do you really want to LIVE with that?
that's the sort of stuff what you should'nt write.
tire topics roll around, but I don't pay much attention, so I dunno if people 
have such strong opinions about them

 feel free to post your engine building question/ comments, trip reports,etc 
you'll probably get several (possibly different) answers to any question.  :) 
 ANd there is lots in the archives, I hear.

In a message dated 1/21/02 11:54:47 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
bsnman(-at-)adelphia.net writes:

<< 
 I just wanted to introduce myself and see what kind of list and how active 
this list is. My name is Alex Vieira and I've been involved with VWs since I 
was a teenager. I live in Colorado Springs, CO, and am a charter member of 
the Colorado VW Bus Club. I have a '63 Standard and a '65 Kombi (people 
hauler and crap hauler, respectively) and I am currently building my first 
engine for the '63 (it's nerve-wracking the first time!). I'm getting back 
into the scene after taking a couple of years off to get out of debt, buy a 
house, etc., but I'm looking forward to participating in some club and local 
events here in CO. I'm also into aircooled BMW twins (affectionately called 
'airheads' by those in-the-know), and belong to a couple of clubs through 
that interest as well.
 
 So, I guess I should ask right off the bat, are there any subjects that 
generally cause nothing but strife and disagreements on this list, e.g. which 
oil to use, whether to do custom or stock restos, etc.? Every list has its 
own personality and I'm just trying to get a sense for this one. I hope 
everyone's having a fine winter under the busses and I look forward to 
swapping info and ideas!
  >>
