From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2002 15:26:04 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Camper conversions  was  Re: [VB] whats this?

Chuck wrote: >>Thanks E&B, I thought that only westfalia was 'authorized' 
sure would like to have that top tent setup though, would look real good on 
top of my
sundial         Chuck<<

Hi Chuck,
Westfalia was the only factory authorized camper conversion that we know of.  
VAG would actually prep and paint (Most years the rear interior is special 
painted and two tone paint.) these buses for direct delivery to the Westfalia 
factory often without a special order from a particular individual customer.  
Take a look some time at the special front seat body mods they had to do at 
the VW factory for the SO-34s & 35s front flip bench seat!
 Almost all the camper conversions done here in N. America were converted 
from panels vans which the dealerships could not sell (Stuck with!) as well 
as the Kombi/Station Wagon and nowhere near the demand for the Wesfalia line. 
 VW/Westfalia even came up with the SO-33 (1963-64?) camping interior which 
could be ordered at the dealership by Kombi/ Statio Wagon owners to convert 
thier buses to camper on the weekend and could easily completely remove the 
interior for the work week if needed.  
   We have a VOA printed sales brochure showing some of the camper interior 
and the roof tent. A VOA advertisement showing night scene of a pop-top 
camper with a large tent (MAR65 Field & Stream).  A VOA magazine 
advertisement of the Campmobile, showing camping interior through cargo doors 
and the huge (Covering engine air vents to front of front doors) tent (2/67).
   We also have literture on N. American camper stuff:

The Kombi Kamper (Camper conversion,shows a panel.), distributed by: 
Volkswagen Pacific Sales & Service LTD. of Burnaby & Vancouver, British 
Columbia (Canada).

Holiday Convertible Camp Equipment (Camper Conversion interior packages 
"Gypsy" and Safari"), From Saxe & Co., "From your Volkswagen dealer".

The Complete "Camper Home" (Camper Conversion interior package), From Jolly 
House, "See your Volkswagen dealer" List cost of $595.00 and later July 1958 
at $425.00.

1966 Sportmobile, "Installation & Erection" of #500 Canopy-Free Standing, 
#515 Canopy Side Walls, and #520 Roof Rack.

Anybody else out there have any other "Camper Conversion" stuff they would 
like to trade info on?
Eric&Barb



