From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 22 Jan 2002 19:36:51 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] "Gunter", Head of the Bad Engineereing Department

(no flame intended)
hmmm. i've driven splits for many years now, and the "incredible piece of
crap" mentioned has never been a problem for me. but then usually when i
buy a bus i have to actually move the "L" shaped piece from outside the "U"
shaped bracket and put it on the middle of it, where it belongs and put a
solid fitting bolt with a good-sized non threaded part for the pivot to
ride on. and then i also have to apply some stuff called grease, and
liberally, and sometimes more than once in its lifetime. sometimes i even
replace the rod with a really choice used one or a new/repro one (like the
one from wolfsburg west) if it's worn, again, applying grease to both ends.
i think i've broken 2 accelerator cables in 15 years. not bad for gunter's
design. but again, i usually install a new german one when putting a bus
back on the road, and i have the bowden tube in the rear for the
accelerator cable so the cable doesn't cut a groove in the tranny/wear
itself out.
yeah, i've seen the pivots wear out, but they are easily replaceable and
available. if the design was so poor, why did they use it for so long, like
25ish years. the bay design is even "worse" with its fixed pivot pin. you
think they'd have realized a problem sooner and corrected it.
sure, parts wear out, but some minor maintenance goes a long way sometimes.
and sure, there are probably some design shortcomings, but hindsight is
20/20. if they knew then what they know now, splitties would have had
plastic dashes, disc brakes, seatbelts, etc.. (oh wait, sounds like a bay
window! :)    )
so my personal bus's gas pedals are stock and functioning very well thank
you, and not actually from home depot which is probably where the
"redesigned and rebuilt" assembly came from.  :)


> [Original Message]
> So, Porsche and a bunch of geniuses designed an incredible engine and
were opening the champgne when somebody said "We haven't done anything
about how to make it go zoom zoom, no acelerator." They thought about it
for a second and said "Let Gunter do it" and they all laughed. Gunter was a
booger-picking son of a vice president in marketing.  
> That is my theory on why I found this incredible piece of crap where the
gas pedal pushes a rod that pushes a "L" bracket that looks like it came
from a Home Depot and stretches a thin wire that pulls on the carb and make
the engine go zoom.
> I had to completly redesign and rebuild the whole assembly with a strong
piece of welded steel and a 1/4" piece of steel rod. 
> I have found a few other not-well-too-thought-out engineering items, have
you?






