From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 Jan 2002 21:8:46 -0800
Subject: noisy heater

i have the "problem" of having a pre-64ish bus with the small diameter
heater inlet holes in the body, and late 1600 heaterboxes with the large
diameter heated air outlet holes. as far as i know, vw did not make an
early style heated air muffler which had both large and small ends, with
the small ends being on the body. i think they did make the later, large
hole ones with an available (as a spare part or service installation part)
asbestos ring/spacer to put the later ones on early vehicles. i did not
have any of the late style or asbestos rings, so here's what i did, in
attempt to keep the stock appearance.
i had a piece of the regular silver fresh air hose, like some use between
the fanshroud and heaterbox, fitted inside the heater box outlet (a nice
fit, no gaping spaces), and the other end hose clamped to the inlet holes
on the body, which collapses a little of the end of the hose. an acceptable
solution, but very noisy due to the lack of the stock "muffler" pieces.
i did not have the stock "muffler" pieces between the heater box and the
body due to the two different sized holes.
at havasu, i bought a pair of the small diameter "mufflers" (thanks bedo,
beto, betto, beddoh, however it is spelled--sorry i don't know) and today i
installed them. i only got the pieces that actually bolt to the body, but
that was enough. i trimmed the silver hose so it still fit inside the
heater box outlet, but over the inlet side of the "muffler" pieces.
i trimmed it so there would be no stretching of the hose. i achieved a
nice, tight fit, and looks pretty darn stock. with the asbestos wrap on the
silver hose, visually you'd never be able to tell is wasn't original.
i took the bus for a drive/parts run and it was really quiet! as quiet as
when the heater wasn't turned on before. i didn't notice any real
improvement in temperature, but the noise level dropped dramatically--to
the point of having to listen to make sure the engine was running at stop
signs. (of course it was, i don't have idling problems)
i think this is a reasonable solution to the early/late problem.
i have tried the current "repro" plastic fiberglass insulated tubes, the
ones available (to shops) through the wholesaler H+H (long white and yellow
part identifier stickers) among others i'm sure, with the large and small
ends, but they were about an 20-40mm too short to work well without
overstrectching them or having to hoseclamp them. maybe that problem has
been solved since i tried them about a year ago.
just thought i'd pass this tech info on to others who might have the same
"problem".




