Date: Mon, 06 Jun 2005 22:44:17 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: uncleric(-at-)earthlink.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus front end. Here we go again.

Doc,
sorry to hear it was a hard ride home from Naturalbus--did you change 
the center pivot bushings?? whether you did or not, check the BOLT that 
tightens the swing lever to the center pin.  mine was slightly loose(!) 
causing the symptoms you describe. . . I found this (easy fix) as I was 
in the midst of changing the bushings (challenging fix). there is a lock 
tab that is supposed to prevent this bolt from moving.

Someone (Karl? George?) posted the entire steering box 
centering/adjusting procedure a few months ago and I wasn't able to find 
it in the updated archives.  I am trying to find it because I need to do 
it myself.  below is what I found--folks please comment.  Good luck 
Steve on your project, sounds like it is coming along, it was nice to 
meet you at Everybus (just as you were leaving). and you Doc as well.

happy busin,
Will A.
Atlanta GA
'70 Westy "Rebertha"

from the archives (3/18/01):

To align the steering wheel to level, pop the drag link back out, level
the wheel, and adjust the length of the drag link til it drops into the
pitman arm.  Assuming you have correctly installed the pitman arm on the
steering box, the box will be centered when the wheels are pointing
straight ahead.  It is very important that the box be centered when the
wheels are pointed ahead!

The full front end drill on a 'loaf, from scratch, is to point the
driver's side wheel to 1/2 the correct toe, adjust the passenger's side
with the adjustable tie rod, 'til it has the other half of the correct
toe, then pop the drag link out and center the steering box.  Adjust the
length of the drag link so it drops into the pitman arm.  *Then* and only
then can you pop the steering wheel off to level it.

Given that you have replaced the steering box, I would say that if your
wheel was level before you started, then it should be level now (unless
you put the pitman arm on one spline off :) Assuming that the arm *is* one
spline off, there is plenty of adjustment room in the drag link to take
care of this, and you can pop the wheel and re-center it, but .... as
George said, again you need a special pulller (for the early bus, late bus
the wheel just slides off).  Do *not* try hammering the wheel off...
you'll just break up the plastic surround and have an *UGLY* wheel! 


                           H Steven Dolan
                           Alexandria, VA

'73 poptop Westy 

In theory, there is no difference between theory and practice. 
But, in practice, there is. 

     - Jan L.A. van de Snepscheut 

  

Doc wrote:
>The bus wanders in one direction or the other. She slowly starts 
>drifting but the smallest amount of correction sends her heading in the 
>other direction like I have over corrected and have to try to bring her 
>back to center. This is a frightening situation. . .
>The steering wheel is crooked, that is the arms from the center are not 
>straight across as they should be but honestly I just noted that today, 
>and have no idea if they were like that before this work.
