Date: Tue, 07 Jun 2005 21:46:13 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Free stuff in Northern Virginia

Hello everyone,

(This is a repost as I have gotten rid of some stuff and found some more stuff)

I am getting ready to move to Florida and I have been cleaning out my shed. 
I have a bunch of bus and other VW stuff I would rather not move. I am 
making it available for free on the list, with a couple of minor conditions:
1) You have to come get it. I really don't want to mail any of this stuff.
2) If you really like it and it has value to you, please donate an 
appropriate amount to the list. Paypal it to Ted at tedebare(-at-)type2.com

First with an "Ill take it" gets it, but you have to come get it within 2 
or 3 weeks or Ill put it back on the list.

Stuff:

1) Top fold out cot from a Westy. The kind that fold in half like an army 
cot. Has hardware and canvas, but the canvas is kind of rotten. I 
reevaluated this and it is actually in decent shape, better than I 
remember. I wouldn't sleep on it, but then again I am about 3 feet too long.

4) Some spare rubber mats from the floor of a baywindow. I don't remember 
if they are early or late, but I think that they were from a '69 or '70. I 
don't know exactly which mats, they are rolled up and I don't want to cut 
the tape on them.

5) A jalousie window from a baywindow. I works great and handle is in good 
shape.

6) A pair of 1971 rear brake lights with buckets. Rusty and needs a new 
spring on one of the electrical contacts. Lenses and rings in great shape.

7) A bugpack header for a 1600cc engine, painted with high temp paint. I 
bought this, then just used the muffler part and a different header.

8) Windshield wiper motor and linkage (with pivots that go through the 
body, and the cross arm) that says "Vanagon" on it, so it prob. is.

9) Rear view mirror. Glass and black plastic are perfect, the white shaft 
is kind of yellow.

10) Flat glass from a baywindow. Everything but the windshield. I would 
rate it as pretty fair. I also have the "deluxe" trim for the windshield.

Non-Bus stuff, but still VW:

1) The whole hood from a late model Type III.

2) Two ball joints for a Super Beetle: Part number 133 407 361 New in box.

3) Two lower ball joints for a regular beetle after 1966+. Part number 131 
405 371 New in box.

4) One upper ball joint for a regular beetle after 1966+. New in box.

6) 8 pass tubular oil cooler from Bugpack in 90% condition, unused. A 
couple of bent fins you could fix with pliers. Doesn't come with any of the 
other bits like filter bracket, etc. Just the cooler.

7) OBerg square oil filter with screen (that prob. should be replaced) and 
tattletale mounting for an oil pressure switch. 8 inch I think.

I just don't want to move it to Florida or throw it away.

Chris
