From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 10 Jan 2002 18:33:26 -0800
Subject: Top 5 Books

hi all. sorry if this is more of a friday thing, but...
i'd just thought i'd see what everyone's top 5 vw/bus books are, and why
(kinda like if you were stranded on a desert island scenario).
mine are (in no special order):
1) official vw parts manual (and a stack of supplements) that covers most
everything up to/including 1967. an invaluable source not only for part
numbers and what they fit, but the pics show nice, exploded diagrams which
helps in assembly sometimes. (i also have one from '58 which is nice for
the earlier stuff.)

2)Bentley reprint of the 63-67 bus service manual. almost more info than
you need. plus it shows the use of those cool factory tools. how can you
exist without one?

3) 1959 official service manual, type 2. again, almost more info than you
need, and those clean guys working in their lab coats, and everything
coming apart like a hot knife through butter.

4)Without Guesswork, various editions. now THIS has more info than you
need, but is absolutely unbelievable in it's scope and detail. my favorite
part is on the first page where it says "it should be carried by every VW
specialist and not just put into a drawer somewhere" (1971 ed.) every
torque, measurement, wear limit to drive the most die hard insane!

5)Der Berater-The Spare Parts Adviser. not really a book, but more like a
vw internal parts department magazine that shows details that nobody else
would know--kinda like the illustrated version of parts book supplements.
incredible details. wanna know the difference between a 211-609-613, and a
211-609-613A is? it'll show you. like the one that covers only rubber,
their part numbers and cross-sections, and what they fit, and to/from what
chassis number. like the one that covers wiring harnesses, their length,
color of wires, and which model they fit. my copy of a copy only goes up to
59, but i'm sure there has to be some later than that.





