From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 12 Jan 2002 14:57:04 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: sunvisor maintainance

someone posted a little while back about sunvisors- the plastic base had 
cracked or broken and the visor would sag and block vision.  

The reason this happens is they are old and need lubricating. Especially if 
the bus has sat for years.   Before forcing the visors side to side which 
breakes the base, remove it from the bus.   Look at the top of the base, the 
part that points to the roof when it is installed.  There may or may not be a 
small plastic cap there.  if it is there carefully pry it out.  then you see 
a screw top, unscrew it and pull the shaft out of the base.   dont lose the 
little spring or anything.  use some fine sandpaper to clean up any 
corrosion, wipe a little grease or antiseize where the bits fit togetehr, and 
reassemble.  now the wiper should turn freely.   If it is corroded and stuck 
there, it would tear the plastic base before turning.    Visor sagging is due 
to that plastic bit getting wonky.  Your visors can be firm and free of sag, 
if the base is undamaged.  May be possible to superglue and clamp the bases 
together to fix them, havent tried that.

You can also undo the small screw that holds the shaft onto the flat part of 
the visor, and make that move freely too, tighten the screw till there is the 
amount of resistance you like.

the vinyl visors respond well to scrubbing with powdered laundry soap (I use 
arm and hammer) and soaking in a mild bleach/laundry soap solution overnight. 
 Toss your plastic dash grab handles and door handles in the bucket and soak 
them too.  helps against some of the yellowing etc.

although the visors came in several colours of vinyl and hardboard, the metal 
edges/shafts painted or chromed all depending on colour/model/year of bus, 
they are all physically interchangable.  I know some people have taken the 
metal/hardboard visors apart and replaced the thrashed hardboard with 
coloured vinyl.  For the see through tinted visor effect.

Not sure if the vinyl visors can be put on the metal bases (very rare for 
metal bases to crack)


