Date: Sun, 13 Jan 2002 03:58:56 -0500
From: Kathryn Bowman <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "Vintagebus List (msge)" <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: The intricacies of oil cooler seals...

Hi all,

Does anyone remember if there is a place to view a comprehensive article
(perhaps with photos and exact dimensions) on all the various "oil cooler=

seals" for the different eras and types of VW motors???  Didn't Hot VW's =
or
someone do a "how-to" article with photos a while back?

I've got a 1955 36hp motor torn down to the longblock to fix a small, pes=
ky
oil leak.  After I pull the oil cooler off and pressure test it (hopefull=
y
sometime Sunday or Monday), I'll want to re-install it with brand new
seals.  I've got some open VW motor gasket sets lying around and I've
discovered at least five different types of oil cooler seals so far.  I
know that the correct seals for this motor are the very simple looking
seals that look as if they were cut off a long piece of rubber hose.  But=

in digging through the open gasket sets, I've already found two similar,
but slightly different seals.  These two types of seals look as if they
have the same inner and outer diameters (bothe about 10mm I.D. and about =
14
to 15mm O.D.), but one type is 8mm tall and the other type is 6mm tall.  =

Anyway, I could use some guidance on selecting the correct one for the 36=
hp
oil cooler to case seal.  If you are certain you know the correct one,
could you measure one of your spare seals and send the following in
millimeters:  inner and outer diameter, and correct height?  Yes, I could=

just look at the used ones when I take it apart, but they may be flattene=
d
a bit.

Also, any of you motorheads care to give all of us your opinions as to ho=
w
far to tighten down the three oil cooler nuts squishing the seals and
attaching the cooler to the case?  I'm sure that you could certainly
undertighten them, but could you overtighten the 36hp style seals also? =

Please describe your theory concerning tightening.  The Bentley and Facto=
ry
Workshop manuals are pretty vauge here.  Any tips on any articles and
photos describing the intricacies of all of the other types of oil seals
and their various applications, etc. would be very helpful to us all also=
. =

Thanks in advance for any assistance and clarification that you can provi=
de
for everyone!

Bill Bowman
NEATO
