From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 13 Jan 2002 21:02:34 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Lug nut taps and dies...

Hi Bill,
If you really want to buy taps for suspension parts you need to make sure you 
buy taps of nominal or smaller size.  What you want is to retain the "Class A 
Fit" of the threaded items or risk them loosening from vibration.  Class C 
Fit threads allows one to freely spin in the nut or bolt.  Class B Fit 
threads does not spin freely, but can be hand turned easily.  Class A Fit 
threads really needs a wrench to turn easily.  You need a 14 x 1.50mm tap for 
bus lug bolt holes in the drum.  Get HS or HSS marked (High Speed Steel) only 
taps!  They last two to three times longer than plain carbon steel taps and 
have far better tolerance ground threads.  When you get that tap for the bus 
drums make sure you get a nominal sized tap or better yet a L1 size.  HSS 
taps have slightly smaller and bigger diameters and are designated by a H or 
L marking.  H = (High) bigger diameter than nominal size, L = (Low) smaller 
diameter than nominal size.  A H1 will be .0005" bigger than nominal and an 
L2 will be .001 smaller than nominal size.  We had to special order a nominal 
14 x 15mm tap and the results were perfect.  This tap size only removes the 
rust and dirt out of the inner threads and does not remove any silver colored 
metal shavings which would indicate a now bigger threaded hole!
  As for dies make sure to also only buy HS or HSS marked ones.  Best is to 
get dies that are split.  In otherwords slit/cut like the late model bus 
front lock nuts that use a bolt to clamp the nuts onto the spindles.  In the 
case of the dies there is a screw to press open the die diameter so you do 
not cut exterior threads like on axles too small and end up with loose axle 
nuts!  If you do buy a die that is not split, first test it on a 
unmarred/undamaged part to make sure it does not shave off material!  Of 
course doing this test with any threading tool is a good idea to make sure 
you have not just made your VW dangerous!   Eric&Barb
