Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2005 22:05:14 +0000 (GMT)
From: dworkin <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: Type2 Buslist <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Help Needed - Stuck in Woodbridge

On Thu, 10 Mar 2005, Barry Burneskis wrote:

> The owner is Don and I have known him for 15 years.  A very honest guy
> and he does A+ work AND IS NOT A CROOK!

I'd like to second Barry's opinion of Don.  Paul's is an interesting
place.  Like Barry, I have been going there for 15 years, and have gotten
mixed results over the years.  Generally I only brought them problems that
had stumped me, so I cannot say I was a run-of-the-mill customer.  They
did always fix them, but some floundering did go on.  At the same time, a
LOT of floundering had already gone on before they got it, so I hardly
expected an instant fix :-)

I have liked and trusted Don the whole time, but over time Paul and Don
were the only two constant mechanics in the shop and Paul mostly did
supervision as far as I could tell.  Paul ran a number of more-or-less
competent mechanics thru there and there were times when the work was done
competently and well and then there were the OTHER times.....

About a year ago, Don bought Paul out and is now running a single-mechanic
(himself) operation.  I like and trust Don very much.  He just coaxed my
'73 storage shed thru yet another safety inspection and did a damn good
job of it.  The problem that I now have is that he is running it alone and
when last I saw the lot it had a large number of VW's in.  I'd very much
like him to succeed, but worry that he will either get overbooked or will
break down and hire another string of more-or-less competent assistants.

Time, quality, price... if you are lucky, you get to pick two.  Usually
one is all you can expect.  Right now, I know that Don is good on quality.
I expect that if I asked he would also be good on time (He took a
long time on the '73 but that was "by request"... he actually did me
a favor by both keeping the '73 as long as he did and by returning it just
as the '80 blew its trans :-)  He's OK on price, but not cheap.  I intend
to go back now that he is in charge.

Steve Dolan
