From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Mar 2005 22:59:36 -0500
Subject: REWIRING ENTIRE BUS! - Update!!

Well, for those of you who remembered (and actually cared) that I was doing an
entire rewiring of my ENTIRE bus... I've got some pictures and a status on my
progress.

The reason for doing this project was because... at the time I bought my bus,
it was more or less stripped. There existed enough wiring for me to at least
get the car started, and that's absolutely it.

I have just gotten through completely stripping the entire front of the bus of
all the wiring behind the dash and whatnot. I know some people had expressed
"dismay" that I was altering the Bus from stock, and I do want to mention that
I prefer to keep things looking stock, but this is what I pulled from the
bus... completely un-usable:

http://community.webshots.com/photo/70738428/293572064MnuhVa

Please take note of all the splitters, splices, and cuts in the wiring. All
that was already there. :(


What I did save in the front is all the original wiring for the turn signals,
and the headlights. I also saved the harness for the windshield wiper but I
don't know if it actually works (it was never hooked up).
You can see here in this picture, I have the two main harnesses as they are
comming out of the floor. You can also see the yellow and white wire (with
hookups still attached).... that's for the front left headlight.

http://community.webshots.com/photo/70738428/293572164ajACfh

And here's a picture of the dash and front of the bus... you can see that it's
pretty stripped.

http://community.webshots.com/photo/70738428/293572029tfxQGZ



And here is the harness that I'll be replacing it with.

http://community.webshots.com/photo/70738428/293572114BdjcpK

It's from a company called "It's a Snap!". They're basically the main
competitors of "Painless Wiring".

What makes these kits soo easy is that each wire in the kit is labelled for
it's application. It comes with it's own fuse panel, all it's own relays, and
basically contains everything you could possibly need to re-wire your Bus.


Unfortunately, while the main harnesses look good.. (you see them in the
previous pictures)... where they come out in the engine bay, they are also
totally butchered. :( So... I'm going to be replacing all of that as well. The
"It's a Snap" kit comes with all of that wiring as well, but I'm guessing I'll
probably have to extend the wire since it's meant for something like a beetle
or a dune-buggey.. and not a Bus. (loooong wires..)

Overall, it's been pretty easy so far. I know a couple people had asked me to
e-mail them as I progressed, and my only advice is that when you're stripping
the wiring up front, take it slow.... do NOT cut any wires until you know for
a fact that you won't be re-using them. I also recommend keeping the wiring
for the headlights and the turn signals. There's no reason to try to replace
them unless you need to.


What I hope to get out of this is:

1 - I'll actually be able to see which direction my turn signal is on!!

2 - It'll be reliable. I'll know everything about the wiring in the Bus since
I did it myself, and I know it's all modern wiring.


I'm going to remove the dash and try to clean up the front compartment some..
and probably paint it too. Once that's done, I'm going to start re-wiring the
front using the Bentley manual (to show me where all the wiring goes on the
factory switches). I'll take some more pictures as I progress..

thanks for reading this far!

Any comments or flames... go for it!!


Todd,
2002 Ford Crown Victoria LX
1997 Pontiac Grand Am GT
1987 Pontiac Fiero SE / V6 5-Speed
1987 Pontiac Fiero SE / V6 Auto
1984 Pontiac Fiero 2m4 SE WS6
1981 Pontiac TransAm WS6
1973 Volkswagen Type-2 Transporter
