Date: Sun, 13 Mar 2005 11:22:35 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: More stuff for sale!!! Raising money for my wedding

Hello List,
 About a week ago, I listed a few things for sale.
Well. I wanted to give an update and list a few more
things.

For Sale:

30 PICT-1 carb. Rebuilt with all new gaskets and a new
fuel injection tube. This came off a good running bus.
This carb works well and it comes with a Single Port
intake and an after market air cleaner. Everything on
this carb works as it should. Make an offer on this
setup. I would Love to get $100 plus shipping obo.

The 1600 SP long used long block is still available
although I have had some inquiries on it. I will be
checking its end play today. I have a crate for it if
you want me to freight it but be warned that shipping
for such a heavy item will probably be in excess of
$100. I think this engine just needs a valve job. it
came off a running bus. the only problems you will
have with it are the fuel pump flange broke off inside
it. That should not be too hard to dislodge and pull
out. Also, one of the exhaust studs is missing. Make
me an offer. I 

The green westy curtains are still here. I have had
people ask for photos but honestly, I do not own a
digital camera. It is a complete set of curtains only.
It includes the windshield curtain. IT comes with no
tie backs or hardware. I paid $200.00 for them a
couple of years ago. each curtain is in very good to
excellent condition with just very minimal fading on
some of the curtains. I would like to get $100.00 plus
shipping obo. The first to claim them gets them. If
you require pictures before you claim them, keep that
in mind.

I have a small stick welder for sale. I paid $100 for
it a few years ago. It only comes with the welder its
self. No helmet or sticks included. I would like to
get $25 obo plus shipping. It is good for tack
welding. It takes practice to use one of these.

I have a pair of 32 PDSIT carbs. These are like the
ones used on 72-74 buses but thses have studs sticking
out of the barrels to screw individual air cleaners on
them. They may have come out of a Mexican beetle and
may be jetted for a 1600cc Dp engine. I don't know.
they are sold as parts carbs only. I want $10.00 plus
shipping obo for the 2 of them.

I have a steel side step for a bus. this is NOT the
popular aluminum step this one had a diamond plate
step. It is ready to be cleaned up and spray painted
what ever color you want.  $50.00 plus shipping obo.

I have a complete auto tranny ash tray assembly. This
is in excellent condition. The push button shifter
diagram is very clear and bright. I would like $15 obo
plus shipping.

I have a Bosch rebuilt 6 volt generator with regulator
in the box. this unit is unused since the rebuild and
has set on a shelf for the last $15 years or more.
This would make a great inexpensive replacement or
spare for those old school beetle drivers out there.
These are ungodly expensive if you buy them from a
vendor. I want $50.00 obo plus shipping.

Let me know what you want and I will try to
accommodate you. I am trying to raise money for my up
coming wedding and I am running out of time, space and
money. Thanks!

Regards,

David Kelly
volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com

David Kelly
2940 OLEANDER DR. E4
Wilmington, NC 28403
