From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Mar 2005 07:57:00 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Square pots

Thanks Karl, I replied too quick. This post is longer so that I can 
determine exactly what I need and I need some help here!

I don't have the CA exhaust (the 34a) just the square port heads, so what I 
need is (#34) for both sides with square port connectors. I am afraid that 
what I need are the infamous 79 only connections and that is probably why 
the previous owner used the oval heat exchangers. When I went to John's 
yesterday he had the exhaust setup from a vanagon engine there which had the 
square port connections...but the heat exchangers looked like the early 
72-74? type to me. They were fatter with the rectangular flange for the 
muffler and no provision for the squirrel fan that I could see. I have the 
skinny heat exchangers (exactly like the second picture on the microfiche 
but with square ports) which have the oval ports towards the rear for the 
pipes that go through my engine tin to the squirrel fan in the engine 
compartment. I am going to start searching the archives now, but my question 
is this...what does a person do when they want to put Vanagon heads on their 
2 litre and still retain the stock squirrel fan setup? I am thinking I have 
to use 79 only heat exchangers, or at least the connectors for it. Do the 
vanagon heat exchangers have some stove pipe connections that would allow me 
to use the stock squirrel fan in my bus and does anybody have these? I could 
probably talk John out of the vanagon setup he has if that is easier.Or 
would it be better to switch to the oval port heads? The heads I have now 
are great and I hate to swap them. Plus I don't have the money for a set of 
rebuilt heads.

Anyone have these #34 connectors? I guess I could get away with my oval 
ones, using copper gasket stuff to seal it better...but that would make me a 
DPO and I don't want to go that route!! Plus an exhaust leak is not good for 
my rebuilt engine. Help!!!

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
> http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Microfiche/t202410.gif
