Date: Sun, 9 May 2004 10:25:54 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starter Question (fwd)

Steve, Andy, Zack, Vincent et al
I have been misunderstanding almost everyone on this issue.
Seemed like "Paul A"  was the only guy that had it together,, maybe a bit tooo*
much... but really?

Who wants to fix a broken arm by leaving the old one there and adding a clumsy
system beside it?... having the attitude,, it is cheaper and it works!

But,, That *IS* the way the world goes around. Each to their own!  :-)
You know how the 009 saga went.....
Ignition switch appears to give you the gears, put a pushbutton on the dash,, while
you worked on the wiring, you didn't even know you fixed the bad connections
Starter appears Bad,, put on a WR-1 ,, same as above

Me,, for the most part,,,
If your starter is bust, fix that.
If your ground strap is bust,, fix that!
If your battery is weak.. you know what to do by now!
and so on...

I have seen sooooo many push button starters,, and WR-1 things that I revert back to
stock wiring, cleaning and tightening in the process,, and may or may not have to
even replace anything to make it reliable again.

If you want the year from Hell every couple of years,, then go ahead, bandage with
the WR-1
If you want to start making things last a decade of Hakuna Matata maintence free**,
then clean up, tighten up and replace the old with good replacements***

Ay-ight do as you like,, make yourself happy,,, get that bus started any way you can!!
IT is TIME to be DRIVING !  Not fixin!

Later when your fed up with the starter not working right again....
http://www.type2.com/archive/type2/038677.html
[copied below]

Sorry about my attitude,,, I am lazy, and only like fixing things once if I can help
it.

* I think "Paul A" says yearly on his starter maintenance,, as I only drive mine
from about April to October.. I do mine every decade.

** What is maintence Free,, LOL,, a marketing program to by a new battery every 5
years.. but you can have a much more regulated maintence schedule, when you want to,
where you want to... instead of a breakdown on the side of the interstate, in the
rain, while you are on a time line,,

*** this is the hard part... what is a good replacement?  So many parts these days
do not last as long,,, for many reasons....  your kinda stuck on this one


-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada

From: "Paul A" <bigguy91_at_hotmail_dot_com>
Starter Maintenance
	It wasnt long after my wife and I started driving VW buses that I realized
the starter is a problem area.  I, like so many others, was carrying a small
hammer and short but thick jumper for when the starter would not turn over
with a twist of the key.  Since banging and jumping the starter would revive
it, I was convinced that there really wasnt anything wrong with it that
couldnt be prevented.  Now I perform a yearly starter system maintenance
routine that lets me prevent problems instead of just fixing them.  The
benefit of this is that I get to deal with this on my terms; you know,
during good weather, at a reasonable time of day, and in my own driveway
	Since there are different starters for different buses, Ill just give you
the basics of what I do and then let you apply it to your own situation.
Consult the Bentley manual for specific tests, and information about the
various starters and of course follow all precautions for working on the
electrical system.  First is to disconnect and remove the battery.  As
always, disconnect the negative lead first and then the positive.  Once the
battery is out I check it for cleanliness, condition and proper water level.
  I like to use a battery brush to clean the terminals on both the battery
and battery leads.  Now is also a good time to check your battery tray for
condition.  Next disconnect and remove the starter.  If necessary, first
mark the wires so that you will get them back on the proper terminals.
Clean the terminal ends of all the wires disconnected from the starter until
they are shiny and clean.  Take the starter to a work bench or someplace
else clean, where you can work on it.  Disconnect the heavy lead that
connects the starter to the solenoid, and clean the end of it.  Next clean
all of the terminals on the solenoid until they are shiny and clean.  I like
to use a small brass wire brush for this.  Now remove the solenoid and check
the plunger for condition and ease of movement.  You should be able to push
it in and have it spring back out smoothly.  I wipe the plunger down with a
little light weight oil like WD-40 or LPS 1.  With the plunger pushed all
the way in, you should get continuity across the 2 large terminal studs on
the solenoid.  Now its time to disassemble, clean, and inspect the starter.
  Be observant as you take it apart, so you will be able to reassemble it.
I do the following things to the starter; check the brushes for condition,
remove and check the armature for condition, clean the commutator using a
piece of scotchbrite.  Disassemble, clean, and inspect the drive mechanism
parts, inspect the starter body and windings for condition.  Use compressed
air or a vacuum cleaner to clean out the starter and windings.  Repair or
replace anything youve found wrong and reassemble the whole thing.  I use a
little high temperature white lithium grease on the drive mechanism parts at
reassembly.
	Now all thats left is to intall and hook up the starter and battery.
Remember, hook up the batterys positive lead and then the negative one.
Hopefully, youll have the same luck as me, and not have to deal with the
starter for another year.Paul AHuntington Station, New York71 westy
