Date: Sat, 30 Jul 2005 08:27:56 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "T." <midgard(-at-)dragon.org>
Subject: 1977 VW High Roof Safare Conversion needs loving home.

Hi folks,
I live in Phoenix, AZ. My 1977 VW High Roof Safare Conversion needs 
loving home.

The good:    I'm the 2nd owner. It was bought new in CA. I've put over 
$6K into mechanical work to get it running (Fast German Auto did all 
major mechanical work. I spent over $4K with them). The new 1.9L engine 
has under 10K miles on it. The tires are less than a year old. It has 
new front end suspension, same with brakes all around. The fuel tank was 
pulled, cleaned, cleared, etc, as were the lines. Electrical is all 
stable for the vehicle aspect. Glass is all good & present. It has a 
working propane stove, and sink. Plumbing is all intact. It has a 
furnace. It is a great vehicle. I've the original owner's manual. There 
are 2 storage bins up top in the fiberglass high roof. It can be 
comfortably stood in the main cargo area. The fresh water tank doesn't 
leak. It has the right & working kitchenette table. All human doors 
open, shut lock properly. I don't know of any rust underneath, but have 
not crawled under, nor been told of any when its up in the air on a 
hoist. The windows in the top part are sliding, not jealousie. They have 
screens (which are 28 years old & thus weathered & need R&R). The fridge 
is a combo: electric/propane. I assume it works as when engine is 
running, the voltage meter springs to life. The RV battery in the van's 
rear is dead. Assume if replaced, it would work.

The bad:    The RV wiring is in "unknown" condition. It has a furnace 
I've never tried to use. It has almost all camping gear (sleeping bed 
stuff too). It may be missing an upper bunk bed. I see rails, but 
there's no bed. It has the wiring for RV services at campgrounds, but 
I've never tried it. The engine is Fuel Injected (some say this is good, 
others don't. I don't as it is a pain to service or find parts.) The 
grey water tank leaks. The fresh water tank needs cleaning out. The main 
sleeping bed needs replacement. It is not Z-fold style. It is a big foam 
rubber mattress that folds and stores in the rear half below the rear 
window. The storage doors are all dry rotted. The bed storage lid needs 
remounting to the interior. The interior will need re-upholstering. All 
curtains are tattered front seats will need it too. Rear end stuff all 
in great shape.  All cabinet doors will need R&R. The rear bay hatch 
needs a spot of tack-welding to the body. Big-O Tire hosed it & refused 
liability. They said it was like that beforehand. Refused to provide 
insurer name, etc. BBB sided with them. The middle seat (a box storage 
thing) lid needs remounting to the box. Nose needs new spare tire 
mounting (after nose is fixed from when idiot diver missed the van, but 
snipped the spare off). All old rubber seals are in questionable to good 
shape. Wipers work, but the washer system is unknown/not working?

The ugly:    The body will need some attention. I bought this van sight 
unseen 2 years ago. I was told it was rust-free. It wasn't. The nose 
below the windshield was "restored" by PO after some incident. The "body 
shop" used Duct Tape as a foundation to paint on. I suspect the bodywork 
is nasty under that patching. There is some rust in the door step area 
(can see asphalt in some spots ranging from dime size up to a bit 
larger). There is a bit of surface rust elsewhere (again, around 
windshield). The woodwork isn't any more. Good old particle board/vaneer 
has dried out and the nails, staples, etc, won't hold it together. 
Everything has shifted over they years to either forward/and 
or/downward.

I've probably told you more bad than good about my van. I'm like that. I 
tend to talk too much about the bad & forget the good. Like, I've all 
reciepts for past 2 years, and I think I've got the PO's receipts too.

Why am I selling it? I've put $6K mechanical into it, I'm a disabled 
college student. I'm strapped to make ends meet these days. I can't 
afford the body/interior work. Was told for about $3K the body can be 
restored & repainted, etc. That leaves me with the interior to restore 
or update. Have not bothered with that estimate. Am afraid to know what 
it takes to rennovate it. Additionally, I can't afford the gas to drive 
it as my daily driver. I need to sell it to someone that can do body 
work or interior work. If I had my own house & yard, I could work on it 
during free time like many other enthusiuasts do, but I'm stuck in an 
apartment. So, either I sell it to you folks here, or I find a guy who 
loves VW's & me and also can do the stuff needed. (For dating info, 
please contact me off-list).

I would like to have $4K for this van. I'll be out over $2K, but 
consider it as "use of vehicle expense." Can anyone adopt my Little 
Buddha?

Timothy in Phoenix,
1977 Highroof "Little Buddha"
