From: "Jeff" <kachimushi(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Jul 2005 10:35:35 -0700
Subject: First bus project in a while - any helping hands in Seattle?

Let me start by saying hello to everyone here. I've owned a few VW's over
the years and then was "VW Free" for about 15 yrs. I just broke down and
bought a 76 Westy that was sitting on the side of the road here in Seattle,
WA with a for sale sign. It is almost rust free (one rust spot by the
battery box) and seems to drive ok, though it will need a lot of love. This
weekend is mostly cleaning, pulling the rotten tent down, getting rid of the
dried up original curtains that fall apart when you touch them, pulling the
stinky carpet, pulling what is left of the old AC unit, removing the grocery
sack full of old stereo wiring (seems every time a stereo was installed they
just attached a new harness in with all the old ones), hosing the inside
out, etc. Next weekend I am going to roll it out to my uncle's Boat shop out
in Port Townsend WA and he is going to help me redo all the cabinetry in the
old girl and put the new pop-top canvas in. 

 

After I return from that weekend, I am going to need an extra set of hands
on yet another upcoming weekend and wonder if there is someone in the
Seattle WA area would be interested in free food and VW bonding while we
drop the engine, put a new sender in the gas tank, install an enclosed -
vented plastic marine battery box (to cease the vapor corrosion issues),
clean the engine, engine compartment and reinstall the engine along with a
new foam seal around it.  

 

In exchange, I can help you with your mighty bus. Grunt work or
mechanical/electric. My real area of expertise is electrical systems. I can
find shorts fast. I have been doing component level electronics work for
over 15 years. I have lots of wiring gear and tools. I can install stereos,
alarms, power amps & power caps. I also worked for a communications company
many years ago and can set up antenna arrays for CB radios, shortwaves, etc.
I can troubleshoot out electrical problems in your camper gear.   I even set
up a touch screen LCD with a Pentium 4 micro board as a MP3 stereo in a
coworkers Mazda. (Going to put one in the Westy once she is finished)

 

If you're interested in doing some sort of work exchange, drop me a line.

 

Jeff in Seattle

kachimushi(-at-)comcast.net
