Date: Sat, 30 Jul 2005 20:56:47 +0000 (GMT)
From: Lima <lima_1959(-at-)yahoo.com.br>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Why not to live in pretentious neighborhoods

When I started reading Dons message, I stopped at the
points as he said that he lights a cig and I thought
to myself, someone that was spying him and called the
costumes.

Who is not ashamed   to smoke in the neighborhoods? 

You are to excuse me, but here in Europe that idea
that we have of USA has that you can buy and drive a
huge Hummer that costs a huge amount of money and
consumes a gallon per mile, but you cant smoke even
at your home. About noise, a jack ass can drive a 64
v8 long block Chevy, that smog every time the throttle
is pushed, but if you are driving a hybrid or even an
electric car youre considered an alien from outer
space.

About sounds, this is the same all around the world.
You can get deep into the law, or can get friends in
outer of your fence. 
Im always asking them if Im making any noise. With
my grass cutter, if my dogs barking loudly, even if
the frog that chooses my garden lake is making noise
loudly when he sings  to females just to keep the
species alive.

In my opinion, if someone told you that you making
some after-hours noisy, ask him for help. In their
situation, what can supposely they  do? Please, can
you give a hand?  

It results with my neighbors. Some just hate me. Them
dont know me for nothing, others knocks my door all
time asking for help or to give me a hand.

I have a closer friend, an old and retired man, which
lives two numbers under my house. He cames from
Jersey, where his sons still live. He has a Ford
Escort van. Always is asking for something, even if it
has the spare tire available. 

In conclusion, neighbors are always the others. We
complaint about them, and them are the same complaints
about us. Sometimes results a good accomplish with a
close friendship. Other times forget all and make no
sense but rules. Just by the book. At this point
forget all and look for another place to live. 

The best neighbor there is someone that lives as far
as 20 miles.

Lima

(from outer space in a 72 Bay)
