Date: Sun, 31 Jul 2005 17:02:10 -0600
From: deedeebus <deedeebus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fried wire solenoid to alternator

Hey all,

OK.  First of all, I am a mechanical idiot.  (Gentlemen, TEACH YOUR
DAUGHTERS TO USE TOOLS!)  I didn't even know what a wrench was when I got my
type 2 and had absolutely no clue how an engine worked.  After suffering at
the hands of various unscrupulous mechanics I decided I was going to learn -
now I understand some things better and can do basic maintenance stuff but
today I am embarking on DIAGNOSIS/REPAIR and that's a whole different
animal.  Your list and resource articles have been invaluable for all my
diddlings, and I thank you for being here.

I have a '73 camper bus.  About 10,000 miles ago I got a new engine.  About
2000 miles ago I got a new alternator & belt, new fuel pump & lines, and
replaced my dual Dellorto 40 carbs with very clean rebuilt ones.  (All
mechanic done.) Drove LA to Colorado in a very happy bus.  Once I got here
did oil change, valve adjust, timing adjust & all was well.

Here's the condition.  Last weekend the van wouldn't start.  I checked the
battery w/ my voltmeter and the starter per Muir and both were OK, rapped
the solenoid & it started right up and has started/run fine since.

Yesterday, I drove the bus about 30 minutes out and all was well.  Then I
drove it home and it was, oddly, very hot.  It was nighttime and pretty cool
outside and it wasn't a long or uphill drive.  Then (this is after the
engine is off) there was an awful burny electric smell that made my heart
sink.  I went to bed.  This morning the engine started w/o trouble but the
generator light came on.  And there is a very very fried wire running from
the solenoid into the alternator.

What is this wire?  According to Muir (who I know is not the be all and end
all, but he's all I got) there shd be 3 connections on the solenoid - to the
starter, to the ignition, and to the battery.  But in my case there are a
bunch.   2 red wires running to a funny little plastic box hanging out to
the left of the transmission (to do w/ ignition?); wires to starter &
battery; this fried wire; etc.  I have pictures if anyone wants to see.  I
can just send you a link.

What could have caused this horrible frying?  Would the regulator going do
it? The engine turns fine, so does that mean it's not the solenoid? Or might
it be something else?

Obviously I have to replace this wire.  I guess I'll have to take off the
alternator pulley.  Also, how do I know what wire to buy?  Which is the
right one?  Bear with me... I am utterly new to this & just want to learn.

Any comments are helpful.

Thanks!

Dylan
