Date: Fri, 09 Jun 2006 17:17:43 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] CHT gauge testing!!

> Don't feel too bad about it, even if you had gotten the gauge to work,
> there isn't much to learn from a CHT VDO gauge anyways.
Huh?  Here are a few things to learn from a VDO CHT gauge:

-it's all relative--who cares about absolute numbers or lack of temp. 
compensation, but pay attention to delta (change over time)
-can indicate thrown fan belt (rapid overheating of heads) or debris in 
fan -can indicate lean condition such as vacuum leak at manifold 
(extremely hot running ~550-600F)
-can indicate running too hard uphill (gauge rapidly rising past ~450 or 
so), this is the main use for me.

now, I understand if you have not experienced any of these things, such 
as mountains, but I have; it's an insurance factor for a 1776 running 
8:1 compression with custom heads. 

Oil temp is good to keep track of longer term overheating issues; my 
engine compartment is not sealed perfectly, and I do monitor it.  Temp 
gauge was way off until I improved my wiring a bit, now it reads more in 
the reasonable range, again RELATIVE.  I also monitor oil pressure 
because it drops with increasing oil temps and thats the key factor.  
VDO dual oil pressure senders (idiot light + gauge) often leak and I'm 
on my 3rd in as many years.  Recently bought this CB performance 
product, handy little "multiple adapter":
http://www.cbperformance.com/catalog.asp?ProductID=837

It's nice having the wiring all together and not having the sump plate 
sender--getting the oil temp that's on it's way to the bearings.

KRR check your wiring to the sender and grounds that would explain 
erratic readings. . .
I'm leaving Atlanta tomorrow, headed for Asheville, then West Virginia, 
then Kentucky, St. Louis, Colorado, Wyoming, Idaho, northern California 
to roost for a year or two.  I've already heard from a few kind 
listmembers along the way who sent some contact info, I'll try to keep 
the list advised of my progress. . . TIA for your support!

thanks,
Will A.
'70 Westy "Rebertha" and 2005 black labrador "Eno"
