To: type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Sat, 10 Jun 2006 11:34:23 -0700
Subject: Free bus, more or less

After giving the matter more thought that it deserves, I have decided 
to give my bus (a '76 with camper self-conversion) away to anyone who 
will come and take it away. It's in north San Diego County, California.

Why am I getting rid of it? There's a chance that I may be moving from 
San Diego to Maine in the next couple of months. The bus is in the 
middle of repairs and bodywork, and I'm not going to kid myself by 
thinking that I can get it all done to my satisfaction by the time I 
want to be gone.

Now, having said that, there's a chance that I won't be moving to 
Maine. But the thought process about what to do with the bus has led me 
to think it might be better if someone else were thinking about what to 
do with the bus, instead of me, come what may.

So here's why I'm giving it away instead of selling it: I hate selling 
things. Also, it's sort of a basket case at present, and I don't seem 
to be able get it on my A list of priorities. A motivated type 2-er 
could probably have it on the road with about a week's work, but with 
the body in ratt condition. Or someone could put all the good parts 
into a good body (ideally, a '74 or a '75).

The really bad:

- about a square foot or so of sheet metal missing in the rear, and 
several generations of questionable bodywork all around
- nose needs a lot of work, bottom of windshield surround rusted away 
(but I have the replacement steel), distortion from spare carrier and 
some botched welding
- windshield is out (but is intact)
- dashboard is out (but all the wires are labeled)
- roof is a mixture of rust and gray sandable primer, about a decade old
- hole cut in roof for camper top (as holes go, it's on the small side)

The possibly bad and certainly not ideal:

- engine is pretty much untested. It's been run in for 20 minutes, but 
that wasn't even enough time for the hydraulic lifters to really pump 
up
- tires only have 3000 miles on them, but they are eight years old
- gas tank probably needs cleaning out
- poptop is not presently attached (but goes with the bus); canvas 
needs to be replaced
- hasn't been registered for a little over a year, so you'd have to 
bring that up to date to register it (less than $100)

The neither here nor there:

- cabinets are homemade, but in good shape

The possibly good:

- engine is completely rebuilt, zero miles on it but run-in for twenty 
minutes, with many new and reconditioned parts; the rebuild was fully 
documented on the type 2 list a little over a year ago.

The really good:

- clear title
- the bus is pretty much 100% complete, right down to the hooks for 
hanging the seatbelts
- there are lots of things on it that have seen, at most, 3000 miles, 
like seat vinyl in front
- there are lots of extras, like a tachometer, oil temp gauge, oil 
pressure gauge
- lots and lots and lots of spare parts: an extra engine case, extra 
(slightly used) EGR filter, powder-coated fan shroud (half of which is 
still wrapped in plastic), an extra cross-over pipe for the '76 exhaust

The deal:

I'm not going to part this out. I just don't have time. If you want it, 
you need to be able to show up in a week or two with a flatbed and take 
it away, lock, stock, and barrel. It's "sort of" free because I'll need 
you to pay me $5 so we can do a legitimate bill of sale

Mark Hineline (moving on)
