From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 2004 13:32:51 +0000
Subject: '76 VW Stalls (-at-) start-uo

This is a '76 California Transporter, standard trans.

The VW does NOT want to run for the first 100 feet.  It will stall if I 
press the gas, even in the driveway, so I have to punch the gas pedal to 
keep the revs up before I go into first/reverse gear.  And it will want to 
stall in gear, too.

But after the first mile or less, it is a dream, and no problems at stop 
signs or stop and go traffic.  But it takes the first  mile to get it there.

I pulled the fan housing off to replace the oil cooler seals, and because it 
was mostly there, I pulled the intake manifolds/fuel injectors/fuel rails 
off.  I disconnected the termal time switch, the cold start valve and the 
aux air regulator.  I think I got everything back, including all the hoses.  
But I used the original (looked good) intake manifold boots (see Mike 
Benthin's recent experience)

I feel I have good vacuum, but I haven't checked it out with gauges (when I 
connected the retard vacuum, the timing went text book from 7.5 BTDC to 5 
ATDC; I have no power loss on hills)

The '76 has some kind of temp sensor in the tip of the air intake to the air 
filter box.  That section of the air intake/filter is still on my back seat. 
Does that have any implications to my stall (-at-) start-uo??

What should I check, the termal time switch or aux air regulator (it doesn't 
matter if the VW sits a full 10 minutes at first starup, so the engine temp 
and curent to aux air regulator does not come into play, I think) and it 
starts right away, so the cold start valve seems to be OK.

New points. rotor, condensor, plugs were installed before the recent oil 
cooler seal replacement.  (Oh, yes, of course, the distributor was removed 
and cleaned externally, as well as the oil pressure switch and head temp 
sensor - had to lift the cooling tin on the left side...)

This '76 has that stupid throttle valve switch at the base of the throttle, 
but I did not mess with that.

Barry sends

Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.
