From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 15 Nov 2004 15:11:02 +0000
Subject: A story on the 'hot start' no-start

Please, not another FART, but::::

I have/had this 'hot start' problem with my '78.  When I got it 9 years ago, 
it had the Ford solenoid at the starter.  I took it off.

I started to get the famed 'hot start': won't kick over problem, so I 
installed the Bosch WR-1 solenoid.  Darn, even this Bosch WR-1 would not 
solve the problem!!

I decided to bypass the dedicated wire from the starter solenoid power post 
TO the ignition switch,  as the power source to be returned to my starter 
solenoid spade, and I installed a toggle switch under the dash (a switch 
like a push button where it would go to the off position when my finger got 
off the toggle.  It may be called an 'impulse' switch.) and fed the voltage 
from the fat red wire (always hot) at the fuse block back down the wire to 
the starter solenoid spade.  I just turn the ignition switch on with the 
key, and then press the toggle switch.  (Of course, if I forget to turn the 
ignition switch on, the toggle will feed the solenoid and I will just sit 
there, engine going 'rummmm, rummmm, rummmm until I realize my brain fart - 
oops, I did say, no farts, didn't I)

This works so well that I never realized that the stock wire from power post 
on solenoid to ignition switch had pulled out of its 'O' ring connector and 
was swinging in the wind under the starter!!  There was no power to the 
ignition switch (does that make sense, even?!?!?) but I was able to start 
and run the VW quite a while until things got bad.

What went bad??  Well, the battery lost a lot of CCA's, even though it read 
that it had 11.5 Volts.  It lost so much CCA that the VW just stopped 
running as I pulled up to a traffic light.  Then I got absolutely no 
reaction from the starter (perhaps also no reaction from the solenoid) and I 
was dead in the H2O until I tried a jumper from another car.

I decided to try a jumper because even though at first I was getting 11.5 
Volts, all my interior lights and my headlights became almost non-existent.  
My fluorescent light in the Westy really did not want to come on.  But since 
I failed during the mid afternoon, and tinkered until about 6 PM, I did not 
try the lights or horn.  When it got dark, my dim lights were noticeable.

So, how about that; when the lights went out in the VW, the light came on in 
my head!!  Dead battery!!  Jumper time.  Connect wire and all is well.  This 
five minute fix took me 8 hours!!!

Barry sends


Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.
