From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2002 07:52:44 -0400
Subject: Our Experience with Vwoa- was dealership rantings. My testament to aircooleds. New engines and detergent oil? (LONG!) Chassis and taillight q

Finally got to speak with someone at Vwoa CS regarding the completely
wasted rear brakes and the failure of the dealership, VW of Oneonta NY
(unfort) the only place with weekenders and campers near here, to
properly perform the VW used car certification checklist. Here is a
short list of what I found so far.
1) Driver brake light out.
2) Plate light out
3) never coded the crap radio they swapped in on us.
4) Rear hatch lock wont unlock from outside.
5) rusted and rust contaminated rotors and pad with heavy scoring
damage.
6) removed over 10 lbs of b1 stone from inside the front bumper alone
(even after insisting the thing gets a pressure wash before delivery)

The dealer even accused me/my local dealership of trying to pull a fast
one and swapping rotors out of a junkyard (yeah, the 6 or 7 rusting Evs
in the back yard, right?)

Vwoa states that with many complaints, all they can do is pull their
ability to sell VW, yeah right. So even though they require
certification, the dealerships are "independently owned and operated".

Since is 3 hours away, and 500.00, I won't pursue small claims court
against the dealership, but if any northeasterner are out there
considering a EVC or weekender, be cautious of Steve Adams and Don
Crandall at Oneonta NY VW.

This experience, although the EV is kewl, will firmly plant me in the
ACVWs forever. I will NEVER buy a waterpumper again, ever. Since we
neglected for replacement parts (just try to get a carb kit from my
local dealer), prevent from logoed aftermarket parts, subjected to abuse
for displaying our own emblems in ads/media/club events, and aren't
protected from shady and mistreating dealerships, I ask....What use can
we make of them?

Back to business, my 66 is running much better thanks to the list's
help.  The builder of my engine, which I don't hold MUCH regard for,
told me I should use non detergent 30 for 2000 miles. I think I can go
tro a detergent 30 at this point, 5 oil changes later in approx 350
miles? What is the general consensous here? I'd like to start using a
racing 30 detergent to be slightly more temp sturdy.
Oil temps are about 170-180 now, the digy infrared coming in the post
today will prove this and cyl head temps tonight or tomorrow.

I still need to find some smaller pilot jets, as the idel needs some
adjustment help/leaning, as when she gets to running temp, the idle
changes, and is slightly slow, which caused my oil light to just blink a
couple times at a slow idle, even the generator started to get angry to.
I have bumped idle back to 1000 since then, but want to adjust it as
perfectly as possible. The vacuum gauge has been great for mixture, I am
getting nearly 20 at idle, with nice drop and gain in the accel ranges,
almost v8 specs, just slightly less.
Mains seem good now at 120, might go to a 122.5 if plugs seem ok for it.

I noticed my 266H does fit opn my drag link, as the chassis interferes
with the nut at the end, just locks against body. Any other tool besides
a pickle fork (evil!) to get the front one off, with out pulling pitman!
I tried the rear first, jus tto spin the rod, but she won't let me do
that, either.

I have also noticed my tailights don't go completely out and BLINK, just
a weak dimming brightening, fronts are fine. Could this be the still 6v
9 prong box, screaming to be replaced by the 12v one I have? Or is this
a bulb/wiring issue?

TIA, and sorry for the book.....
Al



