From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net, vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2002 12:57:13 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] NLA program? (was The Volkswagen Protest)

If VWoA does finally do the NLA program it will better suit us all. I looked
at TWEEKS Porsche and Stoddards Porsche catalogs (just ordered some stuff
from Stoddard) and if VW NLA can price tailights like these companies do it
would be a blessing. example  Porsche BeeHive tailght assemblies for 92.99
(full retail) dollars. These were as rare as 55-57 tailights for buses and
would of cost 300 each NOS or 150 dollars used (a Porsche used 4 of them), I
say VWoA, GO FOR IT


ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Friday, April 19, 2002 12:17 PM
To: vintagebus
Subject: RE: [VB] NLA program? (was The Volkswagen Protest)



first off, no flames of any kind intended, just 
calling it like i see it. please refer to original message (highly edited)
below 
to see what i'm replying to.

 

well, if they should leave things to the 
aftermarket, then you can't bitch about poor quality. people will buy the
crap 
that is placed in front of them. when i worked at a shop selling parts,
there 
was the cheap crowd, no doubt. then there were the people who wouldn't
settle 
for less. i think there were more of the latter. and alot of times the
cheapos 
were "converted" into believers when they had poor success with junk they
had to 
replace a few times.

 

and "notriously cheap"? c'mon, really. i don't 
think that people who shell out $1000's of dollars for turd piles (like the
ebay 
barndoor), or say multiple hundreds of dollars for pre-59 bus bumpers, or
even 
hundreds for repro taillights or say euro 62- assemblies can be called
cheap. 
and that's only for one small part! look at the samba (sorry thom) or ebay 
over the past year at some of the prices for trinkets. it's ridiculous 
sometimes, but the stuff does sell and all the hundreds do add up over time.
and 
then what about the multiple hundreds of dollars to re-do brakes with german

parts? sure there are the "cheap bastards" who feel safe driving leaky wheel

cylinder, no turnsignal, popping out of gear crap piles, but i don't see
that 
kind of bus much anymore. they have gotten past the point of safety and have

either been parted out or fixed.

 

and just because there are multiple model lines of 
vehicles to support doesn't mean that they (vw) have to provide every single

part for every single model. that would be like inventing a time machine and

going back to 1966. it ain't gonna happen.

seriously, how many people are actually daily 
driving their split window beetles or barndoors? sure there are a few, but
not 
enough to justify mass parts reproduction. i think most in the super-vintage
vw 
end of things have realized that parts are scarce, haven't been available
retail 
for a few decades, and part of the fun is tracking down the parts. 

 

i think you'd be surprised at the demand for super 
beetle fenders. been back east lately? :)

 

believe me, if there is a part that is available 
through the dealer, for example hubcap clips and rivets (which still are),
i'm 
GLADLY gonna pay the $1.35 each (clip+ rivet) to get german vw original
parts. 
hell, the repop clips cost more at some places. my vehicle and my safety are

well worth the extra % cost to be "original", "correct", whatever. that way
i 
know the part has some quality and durability. 

 

as far athe AR concousre thing, well again, i have 
NO PROBLEM installing NOS parts on my busses, regardless of how rare the
part or 
how turdy my bus is. NOS is to be used to keep vehicles running, not put on 
display for the world to oogle over at a parts display. i like to have nos 
things on my bus so that people get "upset" that i used an nos part on a 
non-show car. hey, i drive my bus every day and i need the reliability of 
quality parts, not taiwan chrome sh!t.

 

there are people who go around at shows 
griping about correctness. it helps to actually go to shows to see this. may
not 
be the judges, and granted the percentage is somewhat small, but there are
alot 
of people lately who are really interested in (for example) what color
things 
should be, having the correct hardware, correct dated things, correct
M-coded 
options, etc. i think this has also been apparent on the list as well. it is
not 
and never will be as snooty as the porsche crowd (thank god), but vw wasn't 
marketed to the richer crowd to begin with. sure, there are the drinkers and

dopers at shows. that's their choosing. (just turn the f*cking stereo down!
i 
don't need to hear thumping all night). there isn't the volume of "correct" 
cars, like porsches (as you mentioned) because vw's are still being driven
on 
the streets, and not on and off trailers to the next pebble beach concourse
like 
porsches. and also because there are more vw shows scattered all over the
place 
rather than just a few per year. but there are the "show only" cars, which
is 
fine i guess, which do have the vintage nazis on patrol. i think the
corectness 
people are more concerned with making their car accurate, even if just for a

daily driver, rather than a thrown together aftermarket heap with say chrome

tin, american bolts, or pep-boys interiors. ain't nuthin' like bolting on a 
correct nos part!

 


----- Original Message -----  (heavily 
edited)

I think VWOA would have been better off leaving this stuff to 
the

aftermarket.  I'm sure there's tremendous costs associated 
with

bringing back old parts, and I can appreciate that, but the 

demographic they're targeting in notoriously cheap.   

 

Also, assuming this program is more than a pipe dream, how will they

deal with the diversity of models?   What years?   
Let's say they

match the years of VW's to the years of 356's (66 and 
earlier).  You

still have 2 model lines to cover (type 1 and type 2) and 2 major 

generations of the type2 for which there's a lot of 
non-interchangable

parts, and several different sub-models (pickup, panel, deluxe, 
etc)  

For the bugs of the same range, you have split, oval and big-window.

 

 - like there's a huge market for superbeetle

fenders...

 

Some of the Porsche NLA program's biggest customers are the AR concours 
folx.

Apart from people like Dave Mayes, you just don't find that 
demographic

in the VW community.  VW shows seem to be about sitting around 
drinking beer

and ingesting other substances, not seeing whose car is more 
correct.
