From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2002 16:46:27 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] NLA program? (was The Volkswagen Protest)

I have to say overall BusSnob is pretty much on the money in my opinion.

Granted I know there are Porsche people still out there that believe speed
is what it is about :)  I.E. our own Thom AKA Widebody911.   Thom and myself
are not concours Porsche people.

Then again I am not a vintage bus nazi either.  If it is a quality done
upgrade that is functional then so be it.  Rex and I have been plotting what
the *perfect* "next generation" (copywrite Joe Cali) split bus should be.
Heck I just ordered the Old Speed front disk brake kit today!  No, it is not
vintage but I can guarantee with the 15" Fuchs wheels and 11" inch vented
rotors from a 944 (same as 911 SC as well) it will finally stop like a new
modern car.  Also I would like to tinker with the H4 headlights, but that is
a future project.  Dang, I need a digital camera to document this stuff.

was writ:
> This would be an example of a no-respect-for-other-people thing more than
'the drinkers and dopers'. Stereotyping always leaves a bad taste in my
mouth.< 
Give me a break!  Have you been to a bus campout?  I find nothing inaccurate
from BusSnob's observations on this matter.  There is nothing wrong with
stereotyping and racial profiling if no ill-intent is meant by it.  Everyone
does it and it is a part of society... If you do not, then you are lying to
us or yourself.   Just for the record I do not smoke, but have no problem
with someone else exercising their right to do so (read: should be legal
anyway).

I have probably dug a big hole for myself here so I will stop while I am
behind...

And kill your TV next week and take part in life.

Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Deluxe/Westfakia "Dino"  
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise" 

www.tvturnoff.org  Turn Off Your TV week April 22-28

