From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 19 Apr 2002 15:18:27 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] NLA program? (was The Volkswagen Protest)

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII


sorry for stereotyping. none intended. i just 
remember litchfield last year when an arrogant crowd of younger people who 
seemed to be not sober, decided to set up camp next to a bunch of us "older" 
types, started drinking and playing their stereo loud, much to the protest of us 
"older" people. then they proceeded to build an (illegal by the fairground's 
rules) ground fire. when "security" came by and told them to shut it down, the 
younger people got all pissed off! i think they finally realized this wasn't the 
place for them to be and they mellowed out or left...i forget. but i do remember 
they were in water cooled vw's! (so much for not stereotyping). and BYOB this 
year was great with no bongos or loud stereos on friday night.

 

ANYWAY, back to the real issue. if vw wants to 
enforce their rights over THEIR logo, symbols, whatever, that is their LEGAL 
RIGHT. i just think that they could and should have been well aware of the 
aftermarket back in the 60's and done something to regulate it then, rather than 
waiting until now to do so. it does seem like they missed the boat, and are 
trying to grab onto anything to stop the deluge. but hey, the people who had 
taiwan or others reproduce things without permission are partly to 
blame also. they have to be aware that they are copying or reproducing things 
that are copyrighted or patented or licensed or whatever the correct term may 
be. like the license plate frames with the year, vw logo, bubble head 
guy, and the word "volkswagen". i mean how blatant can you be in your 
ripping off? and all the stickers?

i really do wonder how other makes of car (ford, 
chevy, buick, etc..) handle the licensing, old parts availability, aftermarket 
reality.

i personally will not sign the protest 
letter/email. there are a few reasons why i choose not to do so, but they are my 
own reasons. one of them, though, is that it asks you to tell when you plan to 
purchase your next new car and which model you might be interested in, which i 
do not have any intention of doing. how can my point get to them if i have no 
intention of backing up what i agree to (threaten to do) in the 
letter?

i guess all i can figure is this: get a small list 
of realistic parts that you know or may think vw may still have in stock. call 
the dealer (like timmons in long beach, ca--they are very friendly and helpful) 
or if you know someone at the dealer ask them to check to see if the parts are 
still available. if they are, BUY THEM NOW, before they get obsoleted and 
destroyed. plan for possible future projects or vehicles you may want to own in 
the future and determine what are some likely replacement parts that may still 
be lurking around in a vw depot somewhere. and buy them-stockpile for the 
future. maybe if we began to use the dealers a bit more, they would realize they 
have a viable market. now OBVIOUSLY they won't have alot of stuff, that's a 
no-brainer. but i think you might be surprised at what they do still have. geez 
though, don't go asking for dual filament bubble taillights or full length 
middle seats, that would be just plain rude on your part. but if a few of us, or 
even alot do this and then share what we may have come up with, we may get a 
fair idea of what is still around (at least for now). to me, sticker shock is 
better than not having a part i need at all.

maybe i've missed the point. vw is (i think) the 
3rd largest auto producer on the planet. maybe they are just tired of being 
ripped off on such an international level, right to their faces. if they want to 
shut down their supply of air cooled parts, that's their choice, and they can do 
so. the aftermarket and used parts markets will not just go away overnight. 
sure, they may dwindle, but it's also not that easy to go to ford and get 
parts for a model t either (or is it?). and there will be vw shows for many 
years to come. i'm sure that some day the only place to see air cooleds will be 
at shows, and they won't be just daily driving around. sad, but maybe true. 
another point is this: it's not 1967 anymore. geez, you can't even get some 
parts for vanagons anymore, so you should be damn happy you can still get parts 
for your 35+ year old bus.

ok, well i rambled enough and i don't know where 
i'm going with it.

 

 

 

original message: 

 sure, there are the drinkers and dopers at shows. that's their 
choosing. (just turn the f*cking stereo down! i 

don't need to hear thumping all night). 


----- Original Reply----- 

was writ:

  This would be an example of a no-respect-for-other-people thing more 
than

'the drinkers and dopers'. Stereotyping always leaves a bad taste in 
my

mouth.  

Give me a break!  Have you been to a bus campout?  I 
find nothing inaccurate

from BusSnob's observations on this matter.  There is nothing 
wrong with

stereotyping and racial profiling if no ill-intent is meant by 
it.  Everyone

does it and it is a part of society... If you do not, then you are lying 
to

us or yourself.   Just for the record I do not smoke, but have no 
problem

with someone else exercising their right to do so (read: should be 
legal

anyway).

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

