To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2003 16:49:39 -0500
From: Chris Graue <myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]  Patience and understanding, the VW way?

i agree with you, jay. if it something that in no way shape or form
applies to me (ie: i am a woman, yet i keep getting messages about
increasing my p*n*s size, go figure! last time i checked, i didn't have
one). on the other hand, i DO have and LOVE VWs, so when i recieve
something in the mail offering me something i wouldnt have found on my
own, i am glad... if i'm not interested, i can always delete it, like i
do with most of the posts from this list. i don't gripe about getting
messages from the list that don't apply to me, i just delete it and move
on. people sell things here all the time, yet it is ok for them to send
me unwanted advertisements?

i went to his site and there is one page of VW shirts, 2 pages of tie dye
designs, and a page of misc stuff... not like he makes a large variety of
everything and hit us because he sells ONE shirt with a VW on it. give
the guy a break. i even called him and he was extremely friendly. perhaps
he got our addresses the wrong way, perhaps he didnt know better...
netiquet is a new thing and not everyone knows the pains we suffer from
being subscribed to message boards. i think if people just emailed him
back telling him how THEY felt about it, he would understand and probably
appologize. like i said, he was very friendly when i called. 

just my 2 cents,
chris (going to order TWO of his shirts)
70 westy
65 euro sunroof beetle

On Fri, 11 Apr 2003 16:32:45 -0400 "Jay Brown" <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>
writes:
... I tend to think of spam as unwanted mail from porn sites, sites 
> promising to
> increase the size of my manhood or the occasional get rich quick 
scheme.  It
> is in no way directed toward me personally, or to any of my  interests.
... This mail appears to have originated from a guy who makes custom 
tie-dyes
> for a living and is also into VW's.  I think maybe we are being a  bit
quick
> to crucify someone for trying to promote his wares and share his 
hobbies
> with other people who may share similar interests.  
... I hate spam ...as much as the next guy, 
> but I am not about to chastize someone for trying to sell me stuff that

> interests me regardless of how he obtained my email address...
