Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2003 15:46:41 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: T IV Valves

Valves burn because they can't lose their heat. The natural path for the 
heat is from the valve faces through the seats to the head, which requires 
the specified contact width. Too wide and you don't get a good seal. Too 
narrow and you can't lose the heat. Don't get that right and you burn 
valves. It's a failure to meet spec issue with the rebuilder, not a VW 
design flaw.

The other route for the heat is up the stem and through the guide. If that 
gap is worn beyond spec the valve will overheat. If lubrication maintenance 
is adequate, a new valve and guide will last at least 100K before it 
becomes an issue, and can last twice that long without failure. There is no 
factory procedure for replacement of valve guides for the T IV motors. 
Those rebuilders who think otherwise are the ones with short life failures, 
based yet again in failure to follow specs, ie, new heads. This again is 
not a VW design flaw, it is failure to follow VW procedures.

Now, the earlier 4 cylinder Porsches (356/912) do have a procedure for 
valve guide replacement in a very similar design. Guess what?? To properly 
follow that procedure requires spezial time/skill/equipment that makes new 
heads cheaper in the case of T IV heads. It's only viable for the Porsche 
because those heads cost 3 times as much to replace. They also use sodium 
filled exhaust valve stems and are a full mm larger. But then again, they 
put out some 40% more torque/hp with 1600 cc than a 2.0L T IV.

In every case of valve failure you will find failure to follow correct 
procedures. Some of these are, dirty oil creating premature wear, failure 
to keep the motor adjusted and tuned properly, failure to keep the cooling 
system spec, failure to follow correct procedures for rebuilding, reusing 
worn parts. When properly assembled and operated, there are NO T IV valve 
problems at all. Those of you who have experienced numerous valve failures 
will be far better off in the long run to replace your attitude than to yet 
again replace the head with a "rebuild". But only if you really want to 
save REAL TIME/MONEY. It's not a matter of less compromise to get better 
results, it's a matter of NO compromise to insure success and with no need 
whatsoever of any guarantees or warranties. They are of no value in the 
absents of failure.

A factory new head with a 6 month warranty is worth 10 times as much as 
"100% Guaranteed for Life" rebuild/re-do/rebuild/re-do/rebuild/re-do/..... 
when you add the downtime, inconvenience and shipping charges to the late 
for work or busted vacation costs. 
