From: "Bruce Maxson" <bmaxson(-at-)stny.rr.com>
To: "jeremy daniel" <silentnightrambler(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Apr 2003 22:40:42 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] coming home?

Jeremy,

On the right (RIR) side of the tranny there should be a small round unit
with a opening that a hose is attached to (or should be attached to.)  That
is the vacuum line that goes to ....well, originally it went to a vacuum
port on the original dual carbs.   Since you now have a single carb, the
manifold should have a port on it (usually under the carb) to attach the
tranny vacuum line and the brake booster line to.

Take a look in the archives for info on this very common conversion. Also
think about a copy of the Bentley book.

Good luck.  Feel free to p-mail me regarding this (i.e. the auto tranny);
As for your other questions, I'm sorry but I don't know what the bendix is.
Weber is the most common single carb mentioned on the list.   As for the
brakes, well, I think you'll be rebuilding them after you get a core from a
junker.

Bruce M.
'73 auto
Cooperstown, New York
----- Original Message -----
From: "jeremy daniel" <silentnightrambler(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <silentnightrambler(-at-)yahoo.com>
Sent: Friday, April 11, 2003 9:43 PM
Subject: [T2] coming home?


> Hey, I'm looking for people with good info. While i was working in knox,
TN. I bought a 1973 type2 transporter off an older fella. This is my first
VW and has been a dream of mine for quite some time now. The bus was in
fairly good shape but hasn't been ran for three years. I tinkered with it
and came up with these problems to date. First, it has an automatic
transmission, when it runs through the gears, I have 1st,2nd, gear but when
in drive the trans. goes into 3rd gear for a second then back down to 2nd
and back up again. I read a letter sent in that referred the person to a
vacum modulator. It also talked about the vacum box. the vacum line was
rerouted to the carb straight to the tranny. There is a black vacum box but
nothing is going to it. 2nd, the bus has a bendix dual stage single carb. It
was in pieces so i had to get a rebuild kit and put it back together. It
will allow the bus to idle but when you press the gas pedal it stutters
until the second stage carb opens !
>  up. Any reasons why? 3rd the drivers side brake caliper and brake line is
missing. There is just a rubber line with threads attached to the frame. I
need to locate these parts, but where?  I don't have the money to rent a
hauler and tow it so i am trying to get the items together so i can maybe
drive here( Richmond va.) about 400 miles. Any advice would be greatly
helpful. Thanks jeremy

(snip)
