From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 12 Apr 2003 19:41:57 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Pass Smog Forever

All you
> California people have to do is re-register your vehicles in Arkansas
> and you are home free!! Renewing your registration can be done via the
> mail. I don't know how stringent they are in your proving residency
> status.

Thanks, but it isn't a very good solution. You have a short period of time
to re-register out-of-state vehicles in California for residents..I think
it's about 20 days, but you'd have to check the Calif. DMV site. If the
vehicle is garaged and used here in California, it has to be registered
here. There's really nothing that any of us creative geniuses can think of
that hasn't been done before and put a stop to as well. For awhile, I
thought that I might register one in Nevada, but come to find out that it's
even worse over there! It's SO bad, that as soon as you drop your insurance
from a vehicle, the Nevada DMV is notified and it shortly voids your
registration. Then you are required to bring in and surrender your plates!
The license plates even become invalid and have to be replaced when the
vehicle is re-registered. Maybe it's a make-work plan for their resident
prison labor population...Elves don't make license plates, you know!
And you need to reveal your garage address to the insurance company, or
there is no valid insurance. I guess you could lie and say it's garaged in
Nevada, but that's what insurance investigators get paid for. Essentially,
you would be paying for insurance but if anything happened, your insurance
claim would be rejected for fraud and the courts and DMV notified. The
insurance companies have really gotten in cahoots with the state
governments. And yes, insurance is absolutely and completely required and
enforced in both Nevada and California. In California they are extremely
tough, with stiff penalties and the possibility of prison time for
non-coverage or phoney documents.
Isn't life in America grand?
