Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2001 07:08:44 -0700
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
To: Bart Daugherty <badaugherty(-at-)msn.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] To Cut or Not to Cut???

Bart Daugherty wrote:

> 1st Question:
> OK, I know the general concensus is not to cut the dash to fit a new single
> din type radio in there.  I have seen ppl literally cringe at the site of
> it.  But where am I to place a decent stereo?

I bought a plastic box that was designed to mount a stereo in and then mounted
that box between the dash and parcel tray, under where the radio would go in the
dash.  No cut, no muss.

> 2nd Question:
> What do I need to do to get a type one tranny under my bus?  I have the 69
> Beetle tranny, or rather its waiting for me to decide.

If that's an IRS tranny, you have two choices.  Convert the trans to swing axle
or remove the reduction gear boxes.  If you keep the RGB, you have to open the
trans up and swap the side that the ring gear is on and convert it to swing
axle.  If you ditch the RGB, you will end up lowering the bus 3-4" in the rear.

> 3rd Question:
> A new paint job deserves a new motor?????  I have a 1600dp w/ a pair of baby
> Del's recently rebuilt.  Have the German exhaust and headers, big oil pump,
> but it's still quite.... well.... slow and hot.  There's a bus on ebay with
> a 911 in it (WOW, he's letting it go for 4500) thats too pricey for me.  So
> here are my options, build/buy a 1776? Get a type 4 motor or a 912 motor?
> Anyway should I stick with the 1600 and a new tranny or go for something
> bigger?

The 1600 would do just fine, expecially since its been rebuilt.  911/912 stuff
is pricey and its a matter of get out the sawzall to make it fit.  If you go
with a higher than 1776, type 4 is a nice way to go.  I happen to be running a
2L type 4 in my DC.

> 4th Question:
> With the installation of the new tranny the rear will sit considerably
> lower, if I install bug disc brakes in the front will that lower it and what
> does it take to do that?

Installing bug disc brakes in the front will not lower it.  It is "my" opinion
that conversion kits that use bug brakes on a bus is an ill conceived idea.  You
may get them to fit, but they are seriously under sized for the job.


Just an FYI, my comments are coming from the perspective on one that HAS done
every single one of these mods.  I'm running with

1. Stock looking 1960 DC, sitting at stock height.
2. 2L hydraulic type IV motor, no metal cutting anywhere
3. '69 front beam with front disc brakes & power servo from a '79 Bus
4. Rear brakes from a '79 bus
5. IRS trans from a '74 thing (beefed up by Rancho Performance)
6. CIS fuel injection

For the trans swap, I used Bus Boys conversion kit.
for the 2L type IV, I used Oregon Performance Products kit.
all other changes, I fabricated what every was necessary myself.
You could save some $$ and fabricate everything yourself if you want and have
the time.

Two final comments.  You can search the archives and find many descriptions of
what I did.  Search for kn6f and trans.

The most important one.  I would run as fast as I could from any conversion kit
that uses bug brakes parts on a bus.  Why anyone would sell parts to put
undersized brakes on a bus is beyond me.  But then again, they are not the ones
driving the converted bus when its all done, are they?

have fun,

Scott


