Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2001 22:15:27 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] eurotails

>From: "Eric Pruitt" <a1gtivw(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Date: Mon, 24 Sep 2001 14:04:03 -0400
>
>Got my euro tails in and they're working w/ the exception of the right 
>tail light.  I hooked up a jumper from the right tailight 

left tail light?

>(thats working fine) to the right...no light. If the bulb is fine and 
>the jumper is properly attached to the right does this mean my right
>repro tailight bucket is jank and has a short or something.

Check the ground at the right tail light.  You might run a ground jumper
from the metal reflector or bulb holder (the round pipe part that goes
around the bulb) to a good ground, like where the battery negative strap
bolts to the body.

Make sure you have a dual-filament bulb in the right tail light.  I
know, I know, but it's something to check.  :)  You can tell by looking
closely at the filaments, and also by the bottom - dual-filament bulbs
have two solder blobs and single filament bulbs have just one.  Also
make sure the dual-filament bulb is in the right way around - see how
those two little pins on the side of the base are at different heights?
It should only go one way into the socket.

If the left tail light (running light) is working and you bring a jumper
over from it to the right one and can't get the right one to light up,
then yeah, there is some problem at the right one.  You might take your
test light and try it from ground to the tail light (running light)
connection on the right side to make sure it lights up - that is, to
make sure you have juice coming from the front of the Bus.

Most likely it's a grounding problem.  If you find that the ground
jumper fixes it, see if the tail light has a tab on the housing for
a ground wire.  If it doesn't, you can drill a small hole in the
housing and use a nut, bolt, and a ring terminal on the ground wire,
or use a small pipe clamp around the bulb holder to hold a ground wire
on.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds


