From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>, "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 21 May 2005 23:06:51 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Diesel oil

From john kolak:

So that would imply that the API rating applies to both grades on the
line, meaning the vehicle owner gets to pick which of the two grades
to use listed under each climate condition.

Another thing to consider with the march of technology is that when
the card was published, you probably could get lower than a 15 on the
40 and 50 wt multigrades recommended. So I think the 5-50 is a good
idea. Once I start using it in a vehicle that has a pressure gauge,
I'll report the results.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

OUCH! The ratio of polymers to oil in 5-50 would not give you much oil!!
That is a long way from 5 to 50.....
From here: http://motorcycleinfo.calsci.com/Oils1.html

[VII means Viscosity Index Improvers or polymers]

To make a 10w-40 oil, the manufacturer would start out with a 10 weight oil as the base stock. All by itself,
this oil would thin out so much at normal operating temperatures that the oil film would be useless. So, they
add these very special very long molecules, the VIIs. The VII molecules are as much as 1000 times as long as
an oil molecule. The VII molecules curl up in a little ball at room temperature, but as the temperature gets
higher they uncurl and stretch out, like a cat sleeping in the sunlight. The more stretched out the molecule
is, the more it impedes the normal flow of the oil, thus raising the effective viscosity. Now, this sounds
just a little too good to be true. Well, there are two catches: first, these molecules are not lubricants, so
the more of them that you add the less oil you have sitting around lubricating things. Secondly, these VII
molecules can be broken into pieces by various pressures and forces, like being squeezed through the
transmission gears in a motorcycle or the hydraulic valves in a diesel engine. Every time a VII molecule gets
broken, the oil loses some of its high temperature viscosity. Synthetic oils made from pure PAOs and/or
Diesters typically have very few VIIs, so these oils are far less subject to viscosity breakdown due to
shearing of the VII package. As a result, synthetics are far more stable in a motorcycle engine.

10w-30 oil increases its viscosity at high temperatures by a factor of three, which requires a significant
amount of these VII molecules. 10w-40 oil increases its high temperature viscosity by a factor of four, which
requires even more even longer molecules. 20w-50, which sounds a lot like 10w-40, only increases its high
temperature viscosity by a factor of two and a half, so it requires fewer of these molecules than even 10w-30.
15w-40 also increases its high temperature viscosity by about two and a half, so this oil is also
substantially more stable than 10w-40. Most passenger car oils today use inexpensive VII molecules that break
apart relatively easily. Conversely, most diesel engine oil VIIs are chosen from more expensive chemicals that
are more shear stable, since an oil change in a large diesel is expected to last for 15,000 to 150,000 miles.
