From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
Cc: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 22 May 2005 06:53:24 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Diesel oil

From john kolak:

This discussion reminds me of the discussion of dino oils in an oil
engineering article that was posted a few months ago. I believe the
situation is different for synthetics. I use Castrol Syntec.

In my organic chemistry class our professor told us that these
molecules are based on free radicals that excite at higher
temperatures, causing the short molecules to combine and create longer
molecules that have higher viscosity. It is my understanding from the
above referenced article that synthetic oils do not require the
viscosity enhancers and that synthetics have greater sheer strength.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is why it helps to say what kind and brand of oil you are going to use.

Yes, true synthetics have greater sheer strength,

But not all synthetics are true synthetic oil. Some are better processed dino oil and they
have more money to buy judges!

  Group II and Group III oils
Base oils made with the Iso-DeWaxing process are called Group II, and are significantly more pure and have
higher performance than Group I base oils. Chevron Delo 400, Mobil Delvac 1300, and Shell Rotella are made
from pure Group II oils. Motor oils made with Group-II base oils leave far fewer wax and tar deposits in your
engine, and have much better low and high temperature performance than Group I oils. The resulting oils are
roughly 97% good stuff (oil) and 3% bad stuff (paraffin and wax). We just cut that 12" dinner candle down to
about 2=".

The high and low temperature performance of oils are described by the Viscosity Index. The VI tells us how
much the oil thins out as it gets hot. Oils with higher VIs maintain their viscosity better at high
temperatures. If the VI is 90 to 100, we call it Group II; if it's refined to a VI of 110 to 115 we call it
Group IIa. In the late '90s, an even more involved process was invented yielding base oils with VIs over 120.
These base oils are called Group III or "unconventional base oils." The higher the VI, the fewer additives are
necessary to achieve the required viscosity. For example fewer additives are needed to turn a Group III base
oil into 10w-40 than are required for Group II base oils. Group III oils have essentially no paraffin and wax
in them, at least as compared to the 12" dinner candle per gallon in Group I oils.

Group III oils have properties approaching or equaling synthetics, so long as the temperature is above about
400. Group III based oils are often claimed to not perform as well as synthetics in a couple ways: their low
temperature performance is not nearly as good, it is sometimes claimed on the basis of the "ball bearing test"
that they offer lower impact resistance, and since their flash point is slightly lower it is claimed that they
burn off more easily. However, most modern engines are water-cooled, so it's hard to see how the slightly
better flash points of the synthetics ever come into play. I personally don't make a habit of dropping a
handful of ball bearing into my oil pan, so I'm not completely clear on what the impact tests mean to me. The
low temperature performance of the Group III oils can be improved enormously by blending in a relatively small
amount of synthetic base stock and other additives.

Since about 2000, it has become possible at moderate extra cost to process Group II and Group III oils so that
their performance below 320 nearly matches the performance of traditional synthetics. Because of this, the oil
companies found they could now produce relatively inexpensive 5w-30 and 0w-20 oils. Car companies were quick
to see that such oils would help reduce the fuel consumption of their vehicles by a percent or so, which is
important as Detroit finds themselves selling more trucks than cars. So, these "fuel-efficient" oils are
quickly becoming the factory recommendation in most cars. It's not at all clear that these new low- viscosity
oils lead to the longest engine life, but it is clear that these oils help the car companies meet their CAFE
federally- mandated fuel economy standards.

In the late 1990s, Castrol started selling an oil made from Group III base oil and called it SynTec Full
Synthetic. Mobil sued Castrol, asserting that this oil was not synthetic, but simply a highly refined
petroleum oil, and therefore it was false advertising to call it synthetic. In 1999, Mobil lost their lawsuit.
It was decided that the word "synthetic" was a marketing term and referred to properties, not to production
methods or ingredients. Castrol continues to make SynTec out of Group III base oils, that is highly purified
mineral oil with most all of the cockroach bits removed.

Shortly after Mobil lost their lawsuit, most oil companies started reformulating their synthetic oils to use
Group III base stocks instead of PAOs or diester stocks as their primary component. Most of the "synthetic
oil" you can buy today is actually mostly made of this highly-distilled and purified dino-juice called Group
III oil. Group III base oils cost about half as much as the synthetics. By using a blend of mostly Group III
oils and a smaller amount of "true" synthetics, the oil companies can produce a product that has nearly the
same properties as the "true" synthetics, and nearly the same cost as the Group III oil. The much more
expensive traditional synthetics are now available in their pure forms only in more expensive and harder to
obtain oils. To the best of my knowledge, Delvac-1, AMSOil, Redline, and Motul 5100 are the only oils made
from pure traditional synthetics.
