Date: Sun, 22 May 2005 14:26:58 -0700 (PDT)
From: val <qvalff8(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Selector shaft bracket in shift housing (nose cone)

Hi List,

Its been awhile since I left, but I figured it would
be good to get back on since yesterday, my dad and I
dropped the engine and manual transmission (an 002) of
our 75 campmobile. The problem was that the
transmission would only shift into third and fourth
gears. After reading the archives and manuals for a
few hours, we went started taking out the engine. This
morning, we removed the nose cone to find that the
selector link bracket had cracked and broken. This
seems to be somewhat common, as an archive search for
selector link bracket revealed. 

We now need to find a replacement bracket (or perhaps
weld it back together). Other parts that need
replacing are the front bushing with oil seal (that
the shift selector aka hockey stick goes through) and
the ball joint that the thin end of the hockey stick
fits through. How does one find part numbers for these
pieces? Sources for these parts would also be welcome
since I do not see them at the online vendors I looked
at, though I may not be searching for the right
keywords.

All these parts would be included, Im guessing, in
the replacement nose cone (from a 091) that Ron Van
Ness mentions in the postscript of his transmission
article. Whats the advantage of the replacement?
Looking at page 229 of the Haynes manual (supplement
chapter 13) It seems all theyve added are some
springs. I cant quite picture how that would help,
since, if its helping you in one direction, its
resisting you in the other. In any case, does a source
for this nose cone still exist? Craig K wrote about
replacing his in 2000, but I cant find any of the
vendors he used.

Were also wondering why the bracket broke in the
first place. Its likely that the wear in the plastic
ball joint and other bushings made it harder to get
the gears engaged, and that tougher shifting further
fatigued the old metal. As such were planning on
cleaning up the shifting from knob to tranny, which
probably means take everything out and replace
whatever is broken. Finding the correct parts for that
will hopefully be easy, though again, finding part
number will help. How do you part number gurus do it?

Also, since we have everything out, this is a great
time to fix everything else thats going on. This
means fixing oil leaks, replacing fuel hoses, and
otherwise fighting the general accumulation of
entropy. We have some Stalube tranny fluid, though Im
wondering if that is still the favored replacement
fluid. Is there anything else we should look into
while the engine bay is empty? 

Thanks a lot for your help.

-Valentin Decker



		
Yahoo! Mail
Stay connected, organized, and protected. Take the tour:
http://tour.mail.yahoo.com/mailtour.html
