Date: Sun, 22 May 2005 21:24:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: Miles Erickson <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>, "Nemo, the Bus
Subject: Re: [T2] Diesel oil

Good question. Seems to be a secret like the Coca Cola
formula.....

From a Mobil 1 website:

"Mobil 1 synthetic motor oils are manufactured using
non-conventional, high-performance fluids. These
include polyalphaolefins (PAOs) and other ExxonMobil.
engineered fluids which make up the Mobil 1 with
SuperSyn TM formula."

Hmmm..... 'and other engineered fluids...'?!?

So I went to the Mobil 1 website and clicked on FAQ:

FAQs for Mobil 1

What's the difference between a fully synthetic and a
synthetic blend motor oil?

"All motor oils are made up of base oils and
additives. In general, fully synthetic motor oils
contain non-conventional, high-performance fluids.
Semi-synthetic oils (also called "blends") usually use
a small percentage of non-conventional,
high-performance fluids in combination with
conventional base oil."

Hmmm... a semi-synthetic uses a small percentage of
high-performance fluids..... 

Gee, this sounds like the 1st paragraph above!

But 2 questions down the page is this one:

Is Mobil 1 with SuperSyn Technology a fully synthetic
motor oil?

Yes, it is. To meet the demanding requirements of
today's specifications (and our customers'
expectations), Mobil 1 with SuperSyn uses
high-performance fluids, including polyalphaolefins
(PAOs), along with a proprietary system of additives.
Each Mobil 1 with SuperSyn viscosity grade uses a
unique combination of synthetic fluids and selected
additives in order to tailor the viscosity grade to
its specific application. 

OK, who's BS'ing who here?

So I went looking for the MSDS to see what the
ingredients are..... ha! They are available from your
sales supplier or some such nonsense.
  

--- Miles Erickson wrote:
My understanding is that Mobile 1 remains PAO
also.  Is that correct?  I cannot really tell
from any of the marketing hype on the websites,
except that Amsoil claims that Mobil 1 is similar
to stuff they used to make 30 years ago.  
 
I'd sure like to know, as I've been paying the big
$$$ for Mobil 1 on the (perhaps incorrect!) belief
that
it is real.  I knew that Castrol Syntec was fake
synthetic oil, but wasn't aware that Mobil might have
followed suit.
 
Anyone know for sure?
