From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 28 Mar 2003 23:23:03 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip report 

After replacing the axle boots Sunday, topping up the gear oil, checking the 
valves (one was .001" loose) and points and timing, and getting the slow leak 
tire replaced with a brand spanking new one, we headed on a little hot 
springs tour.   It was typical NW spring weather, that is to say pouring with 
rain.   The bus was fairly well laden with loads of camping stuff, including 
a big green tarp, bundles of firewood, two mountain bikes, and miscellaneous 
stuff.   Headed south to Drain, Oregon, and visited Susan who made us very 
welcome.  
      Drove the next day up the mountains through pouring rain up a narrow 
road with speeding logging trucks kicking up mass spray to hot springs.  
Hiked a slippery trail through mud to get to some wonderful steaming pools.  
It was so hot we had to get out and stand in the rain every so 
often!!!!!!!!!!   eventually got out a drove a short way to a campsite.  tied 
the tarp between the bus and some trees and buildt a camp fire under the 
tarp.  Other wise it would have gone out, it was hard enough to get it going 
as everything was damp.  we were soaking wet, and everything was damp.   
Cooked up some grilled cheese and conked out.   
    Biked back to the Hot springs in the morning, and it was lovely.   
Decided to go back to I 5 and north to some other hot springs, rather than 
over the pass, as it looked snowy and we didin't bring chains.  It was 
starting to clear , but the we'd have headed back into the rain if we went 
east.  so west it was.   Turned out they did a lot of changes at cougar since 
I'd been there last years ago.    There is a fee area and everything.  
decided to camp, and hit the springs in the morning.   Found a really nice 
place not far up the road.  Didn't have to build a fire under a tarp as it 
only sprinkled occasionally.      
    Next morning we were kinda disappointed that the springs were not so hot. 
  But some folks said they were warmer than the day before.   The past week 
it had rained so much that the heat was diluted I guess.   the scenery was 
gorgeous, though, old growth fir and cedar.     Loads of people showed up, so 
we split and went back to camp.   Thus morning it had wamed up some, so it 
was nice to stand in the cold stream and pour ice cold water on me.   :)   
    Had sunshine even. What is that bright orb in the sky?  It must be 
dangerous!!!.
Seemed a long drive back today though.  Think the bus and all has mostly 
dried out though.   Not sure how many miles we went.   the speedo turned over 
to 00000 down in Oregon in the boonies though.   Now I have a brand new bus 
with about 500 miles on it!
