Date: Fri, 28 Mar 2003 22:40:46 -0800
From: Jim <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vintagebus
Subject: VW Part Number Scheme

Unca Joel sent this to the list the last time the question came up. 
 Someone was asking earlier today and I don't remember which list they 
were on...

Jim

+++++++++++++

I have some VW parts that need identification...which year/type vehicle 
they belong to. Does anyone know of a source where I can look up items 
by part number?

this might help a little bit ..

Number Crunching - the lowdown on Volkswagen's part numbering system.
by Timothy N. Gavern, with special thanks to John Ludwig (VW TRENDS, 
March 1992)

If you've been around Volkswagens a while, you have probably caught on 
to the fact that there is a system to their parts numbers. A good VW 
parts man can usually go to the shelf and get the part you came in for 
without even looking it up in the book. Of course, he probably double- 
checks to be sure that he has the right one ... But, the reason that he 
can pull parts this way is because Volkswagen had the foresight in it's 
infancy to develop an extremely efficient nine digit system of numbering 
(with letters of the alphabet sometimes appearing as suffixes).

This system makes it easy for him (or her) to come up with the correct 
part because of how the part number identifies what the part is. The 
nine digit number starts off with three digits indicating what type, 
model, or version of car (or truck) the part is for. The following digit 
is the main group that the part is from. The following two digits are 
the sub-group identifiers and the last three digits are the part's 
actual number within the group and sub-group. If there are any letters 
following the number, they are the modification code. Sound difficult? 
Look at this example and you will see how simple it really is.

Part number 176 867 009 C MT3 is a blue left door trim panel for a Golf 
2-door. The breakdown to identify the part goes like this: The first 
three digts, "176", distinguish the Type, Model, or Version of the 
vehicle (Golf, 2-door). The following number, "8", is the main group 
number from which the part is from (Body). <sic> Next, the two digits, 
"67", indicate the sub-group number (Door trim panels, side trim panels, 
trunk linings, roof and pillar linings, and grab handles) followed by 
"009 C" which is the part's number (Left side, front door panel). 
Following the part number is the "MT3" modification code (Blue).

A further breakdown of the part number is in order here. It is important 
to remember that the first three digits indicate the type, model, or 
version only for which the part was originally designed. This could 
confuse people sometimes, but realize that parts can also be used on 
other vehicles and because of this fact the first three digits do not 
etch in stone that the part is for only one particular vehicle. Think 
about the case of an oil dipstick. Why should Volkswagen make five 
different ones when one could suffice for several vehicles. Hence, your 
dipstick part number could have a different first three digits than the 
digits that indicate your model. In this case, the first three digits 
would indicate which car model or type the dipstick was originally 
designed for ... not the model you have. Simple.

Next digit in the part number are the group number, the groups are 
broken down into ten categories (or groups). <sic> The one digit 
indicates which group the part is from.

1. Engine 2. Fuel tank, exhaust system, heating and air conditioning 3. 
Transmission 4. Front axle, steering, differential 5. Rear axle 6. Road 
wheels, brakes 7. Hand-lever system, pedal cluster (frame) 8. Body 9. 
Electrical 10. Factory accessories such as jacks, tools, and stickers

In the case of the part number that we identified above, Group 8 
indicates that it was a body part.

The subgroup is the next identification; which follows the group number 
and is indicated by a two digit code. In our case, "67", which means 
section 67 of the main group 8 in the Golf microfiche. This makes 
finding the part in the microfiche much easier and faster.

Following the subgroup is the actual part number or "actual" numerical 
designation. "009" is the actual part number. Actuall y, the ninth digit 
in the part number is the part's real number. In our example, it is an 
odd number (9). Odd numbers usually indicate a left side part and even 
numbers usually indicate a right side part. Those parts which could be 
used on either side usually have an odd ninth number. Our part is a left 
side door panel, so the number is odd. Note: It is very important to 
remember that left, right, front, rear are determined from the driver's 
seat in driving position.

Last, but not least, is the modification code at the end of our number. 
These are added to the part number if the part has been modified or 
changed. This means if the part has been changed to different materials, 
construction of the part has changed, or even if the supplier has 
changed. The "C" indicated in our part number could be a manufacturing 
plant code, a change in materials, or whatever. These parts with 
modification codes may or may not interchange with parts having the same 
part number and no modification code. These letters also very 
importantly can tell you what color the part in question is. As in our 
case, where "MT3" signifies the color blue.

One last important thing to remember is not to confuse the chassis 
numbers (VIN numbers) with part numbers. The part numbers only indicate 
the parts that make up a vehicle, but the chassis number simply 
distinguishes one vehicle from another. We hope this article will make 
it a little easier for you to understand Volkswagen's part numbering 
system and that you are a little more appreciative of the fact that 
their system works so well. 
....................................................... .................

i'm not sure when vw put this system into effect, so i don't know if it 
applies to the oldest generation of buses. as i recall, the 2nd 
generation of buses had part numbers usually beginning with 211. vanagon 
part numbers usually begin with 251. eurovan part numbers (i think) 
begin with 700.

this does NOT apply to electrical parts, or tranmission parts. electric 
parts seem to start mostly with 025 (which seems to be a designation for 
Bosch). transmission parts seem to start with the type of transmission 
... that is, an air-cooled vanagon 4-speed has a 091 transmission, and 
parts for that transmission would start with 091. a vanagon syncro 
transmission is an 094, and its parts (but only those SPECIFIC to the 
Syncro) would start with 094. any 094 parts that are common to the 091 
would start with 091.

it's kinda neat to notice that the Oh-my-God-straps in the campers, 
those grab-and-hang-on straps for the rear seat passengers, start with 
113 ... the old faithful Beetle. :)

.
