From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "Bob Thomas" <bobgthomas(-at-)earthlink.net>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 29 Mar 2003 07:02:53 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Clutch misery

Bob,

Are your engine mounts, and transmission mounts good? You can have quite a
time if the mounts are going. The vert ghia wants this attetnion soon, the
76 sportsmobile up the road I won't buy becuase I have to yank the T4 and
trans then do mounts, getting that one into second requires special mantras,
chants, and prayers, whilst the owners insists "you have to get use dto the
vw", sure....
I really think the mounts might be to blame if you have all the correct
clutch parts, and the clutch arm can swing with the spring returning it.
I wanted to give up recently too. Take it easy, the smile will come back....
:)

Al


Hello All

Well, I am TOTALY  frustrated.  My clutch stopped working again.  Last night
coming home, as I got off the exit ramp by my house, I found I could not
downshift.    The gear shift will not budge with the engine running.  Shifts
fine and smooth with engine off.  Had been shifting fine and smooth until
last night.  For a recap, in the last 6 weeks or so I replaced the clutch
cable, fully greased, then had to pull the engine and replace the pressure
plate, TO bearing, and clutch disc.  All from ronnie in AZ.  He also sent
along a new clutch arm just in case mine was worn.  It was, so I replaced
it.  New arm,, clips, left bushing, copper bushing was fine.  Put it all
back together, worked great.  For about 4 weeks.

I just crawled under the bus, and readjusted the clutch cable wing nut.
Didn't help. Just now put a new boden tube on it.  Didn't help.  Since I had
the wing nut off, I worked the cable with my hand back and forth.  No
problems, didn't grab, etc., no cuts in the metal tube either.  I had a
nieghbor step on the clutch pedal while I watched the clutch arm.  Moved the
way it should.

I am ready to torch this P.O.S. Yes, I know pulling a VW engine is easier
than others, but it is still a lot of work, particularly when you are totaly
by yourself.  At least for me.  Can anyone think of something OTHER than me
having to pull the g.d. engine again???

I must say, I have driven old english cars, MG's, Jags etc and NEVER had a
problem with a clutch.  English cars have a history of being tempermental,
but this VW seems like it always has something wrong.

Thanks

Bob T, in a very bad mood
