From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 29 Mar 2003 10:42:56 EST
To: magicbus(-at-)earthlink.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] best brakes, engine and transmission

he wrote:
H i I am frank an am new to the list I heard this is THE place so I hope
to get in.
hi folks I am new to the list but not busses I have a 67 with a stock
1500 single port complete with rev limiter. 
I just bought the bus here in florida and it is in good shape all original 
recent rebuild.

I hope to build an engine with more power and I an looking for some
advice on what you folks think is the best bus engine-
Then comes the transmission? I have reduction boxes but feel no need to 
remove them  
What is the ideal rpm for hwy cruising. 
last and most important is brakes
....................................
Well, that's a pile of questions, all similar to what's the best oil, or what 
is your favorite beer?

 I recommend taking one thing at a time, especially if you are new to 
splitties. otherwise you just have stuff torn apart and buses are more fun if 
they are drivable. 

1)  brakes come first.  with stock brakes you should be able to stomp on the 
brakes and have stuff fly forward.  Warn any passengers first, or they might 
smash the windsheild with their head getting blood in your bus and cracking 
your glass.  If this doesn't happen, your brakes are in need of work.  New 
flex hoses add a lot, and are often ignored.  I assume you already flushed, 
bled, and adjusted the system.   That black goo in the reservoir comes off 
with rubbing alcohol (when you have emptied th reservoir).    Disc brakes do 
work better than drum, and then you get into wheel bolt on issues I believe.

2) engine and tranny are like bread and butter.  VW designed the engine and 
tranny to match in terms of power/ gearing.    A bigger engine will give you 
more oomph, but you will go the same rpms  unless you change the gearing.  
Many folks get a 3.88 r& P tranny with the 1.26 RGBoxes as a gearing up 
thing, which gives ~ 3500 rpms at 70.  This keeps the ground clearance.  A 
larger than 1600 engine is helpful for this, especially if  you drive around 
with the bus loaded.  You can also use taller tires.   15" bus rims would fit 
a later splitty, and effectively increase the gearing.

VW recommend cruising/ max rpms at 3500 or 3600.  the buses run cooler and 
engines last longer if you keep your cruising speed to ~ 3,000rpms.
