To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 16 Dec 2002 12:43:22 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] mysterious rattle

just as i suspected (see original post below). the metal of the frame
around where the bolt goes through has broken. the metal i saw, when i
turn it, matches exactly the shape of the hole in the frame. it is not a
round hole. it looks like perhaps it was torn at the edge, and as i (or
PO) hit bumps or turned, putting more strain on it, it tore more and more
until it snapped off. now i have to have it welded back together, unless
it is not possible to weld such a small piece back on, in which case i
will have to have a new one welded on... anyone have a junked bus they
can cut this off of for me? this piece sits on top of the frame that runs
front to back with the bottom of it spot welded to the frame. then there
is another piece on the back of it that creates a box. the top of this
piece is where the hole is that the bolt goes through. it is no longer an
enclosed circular hole. 

but i do want to thank all those who gave me suggestions as to what they
thought it was, as pink did below. unfortunately, i am not lucky enough
for such an easy fix... phooey. oh well, that's my luck!

chris <--- not looking forward to this
70 westy (at this rate, there wont be enough tax return left to make it
to BBB!!!)

On Sun, 15 Dec 2002 23:18:32 EST PINKNEWELL(-at-)aol.com writes:
In a message dated 12/15/2002 1:42:31 PM Central Standard Time,
myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com writes:

... damn! i think my problem is more severe than i thought. the metal 
the
... bolt goes through is no longer an enclosed circle, if it ever was 
(if
... not, someone please tell me). the top of the circle is missing and 
there
... appears to be a ring of metal around the bolt, as if the metal the 
bolt
... goes through had broken. i felt behind that wall and i can feel  the
back
... end of the bolt, so i dont THINK tightening down the bolt will do
... anything at all. i need to jack it up and remove the wheel to 
inspect it
... better, but from what i could see, it looks like i will have to  have
... someone weld it for me.
... 

... Chris, I bet that the ring of metal you're seeing around the bolt  is
the 
... inner circle that used to be a part of the shock, it was inside the 
rubber 
... ring, take the wheel off and get a better look, I've had to cut 
these off 
... with a dremel tool before, see if Leo or some other bus guy there in 
Tulsa 
... can help get it off... you'll need to put new shocks on, always in 
pairs, so 
... do both rears.
 
...     Pink
