Date: Mon, 16 Dec 2002 20:50:57 -0800
From: Mike Kullman <mkullman(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Help w/hard decision

I have a 79 country home conversion that I have converted again with my 
own cabinets and westy parts.
It is/was in immaculate condition - the interior is great, I pulled all 
back panels and insulated and covered with plastic. The floor, deck in 
the back and "firewall" part from floor to deck are all sound dampened. 
New carpet on the back floor and a westy fold out bed/seat with custom 
cabinets so that the bed is full size (I am a big guy). The engine has 
10K on a rebuild from AVP. The low end is balanced. It runs like a 
dream - hums!! Oil changed every 3K or less. External cooler, mounted 
underneath (for those hot California summers) w/filter screw on adapter 
- so if you don't like external coolers (seems most on list don't) it 
comes right off. Body was in great condition, Original paint (two tone 
orange and tan) was garaged for many years and I have covered it for 
the last 2, with minor dings, very little rust (were talking spots) 
that have all been treated. Until friday the 13th. I have a sloped 
driveway and had a busy day. I got home parked the bus did not pay 
attention, did not pull the E brake enough and did not put the bus in 
gear - long story short it rolled hit a neighbors parked truck = $1300 
in body damage to the bus and the verdict is still out on the Truck - 
although that is insured. Only  other problem is transmission - it has 
a whine but works fine no popping out of gear etc- I was going to pull 
engine and tranny , but probably can not afford to now.

So I bought this bus for $1500 with a blown engine my best estimate is 
I put another $2000 into it. What I need help with is what is it worth? 
Is it worth putting another $1300 into it. Sure the bus has sentimental 
value and sure I have loved buses all my driving life (had a 71 westy 
for 8 years). But I just have a hard time justifying spending another 
$1300 plus time, blood, sweat, curses and probably another $500 for the 
tranny into it. I see 4 options:

(1) sell it now as is and take a loss - maybe someone out there would 
like it for a good price and then want to put the money into it
(2) put the cover on it and sell as is in the spring
(3) put the cover on it and fix and keep or sell in the spring
(4) Fix the body now do the trany later
(5) Fix the trany now and do the body later

Any suggestions and/or thoughts are welcome

Mike and Bessy
