Date: Wed, 30 Jan 2002 13:18:39 -0800
From: wabbott(-at-)mtest.teradyne.com (Bill Abbott)
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: 6K for a 1970 hardtop Westie? How to buy a bus.

Mike writes:
I've found a bus that is really nice, but I think they might be asking too
much, so I wanted to get your opinion on the bus.   It's a 1970 westy
hardtop (supposedly).   The price they're asking is $6000.   Its been
completely stripped and all rust removed then repainted to white.   The
interior is completely redone to (supposedly) original condition.   The
motor and gearbox have been rebuilt approx. 10k  miles ago to original
specs.  It has a new braking system including master cylinder and all drums
and shoes.    The seller showed me receipts that totalled to about 10k.   3k
alone for the body and paint.


	Mike, 
	Buy the most bus you can get- usually this is the nicest bus
and the most expensive. The newer you are to this, the more
important it is to start with a good vehicle. My first bus
was a '69 I paid $1200 for. It grenaded its engine after 2500
miles. I'd barely learned to do valves and oil changes, and I
couldn't come up with money and time to rebuild the engine :

	THERE IS NO PERFECT BUS. BE PREPARED TO WALK AWAY FROM ANY BUS
YOU ARE OFFERED. ANOTHER WILL COME ALONG. REALLY.

	$3K for body and paint is about right for  a good quality job if 
the shop is good, but it wouldn't pay for completely stipped to bare metal, 
windows removed, interior removed. Did the owner do the prep-work?
But $3K might pay for a nice paint job. Personally, since I'm in 
California, I'm not a fan of removing the factory paint. The respray 
primer and paint may be good, but the factory stuff, if undamaged, is 
better than anything a body shop can put on for $3K. Stripped to bare
metal and painted with Imron? Sure, better than factory, but not
for $3K. 

	We paid $1200 for our 70 single-cab, as a glider, no engine, and getting
it to move under its own power with a new motor, new CVs, master cylinder,
new tranny seals, welded up battery tray, new battery, odds and ends,
brought the grand total to $4400. 5 years ago. In that light, $6K for
a hardtop Westie that's done right is a reasonable price. 

	Buy the Muir book, read the chapter about buying a VW, do the
several-hour inspection yourself or do what you can and hire a local
shop to do the compression, and so forth. DO look for rust under the
mats, around the front windshield seal down by the wipers, under the
battery, under the carpets. DO look at the color of the brake fluid
in the resevior, (clear-to faintly yellow? Or filthy black?)
oil on the dip-stick (Honey color? filthy black?), underside of engine 
and tranny. 

	At 10K miles, engine and tranny should be clean, dry, neat.
CVs, ball joints in front suspension, brake master and slave cylinders
are all wear items to check- no leaks anywhere, right? There's a
seal around the shifter at the nose of the tranny- check there. For
$6K, it should still have the snow-saucer sized cover that goes under
the pedals and keeps dirt and water out of them and daylight from showing
around the pedal shafts where they come through the floor. Of course
the sliding door should operate smoothly opening and shutting.

	ALL the locks, all the electrical bits, all the windows should work
for $6K. Bumpers should be firmly attached, head liner clean, seats
comfortable, seatbelts present and working well. This is 'high market'
and lack of original paint means its NOT a low-wear creampuff.

	Your milage may vary, and its your money. Something WILL go wrong
after you buy it, expect the unexpected, be prepared to spend $500
in the first 6 months and be happy if you don't.

	Happy motoring!
	Bill
