Date: Thu, 31 Jan 2002 14:09:25 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Blinker problems - '78 Riviera

Okay as we approach the weekend I am planning a few jobs to our (temporary) 
Riviera - belongs to a good friend that says drive it and while you are at 
it could you fix the blinkers and change the oil? Good deal for her, good 
for us - nice to have a second car for a while. She may have trouble 
getting it away from our 2 year old son and Lucy our Belton Blue English 
Setter - both of whom have taken to this bus very strongly! <Grin!>

I think I can figure this out eventually but a few suggestions from you 
guys could make it progress faster... Would allow time for the family and I 
to do something else.

When I flip the signal lever on the column I get a steady dash indicator 
for the blinkers (normal brightness). Outside I get nothing at either end 
of the bus. They worked just fine until we replaced a voltage regulator 
(which was simply just a plug in replacement).

More symptoms...

At night while the lights are on (interior, exterior, dash, whatever) they 
pulsate slightly. This bus just recently got a new battery (would not hold 
a charge) and regulator (because the battery was not getting charged well).

The signal indicator glows slightly at all times - more visible at night of 
course.

No hazard blinkers when the switch is pulled to "on".

We did swap my own Westfalia's blinker relay for the Riviera and the Rivera 
still would not blink it's indicators. We could not test the Riviera relay 
on the Westfalia b/c my Westfalia is still quite incomplete (no dash or 
electrical services yet...

Okay let's see if I can confirm the wiring diagram for this circuit 
correctly verbally... (I have a picture too).

12 volts positive to the dash light (which terminates in a ground) and to 
the blinker relay to the column switch which determines whether the 12 
volts is passed to the left side or right. Then 12 volts passes through the 
column switch through the appropriate side's bulbs to ground.

Is the 4-way flasher a by pass of the column selector switch to both left 
and right sides and then through the bulbs to ground?

So could it be that the fault in my system is that a main ground (possibly 
at the rear taillight housings) has failed? Wouldn't the blinkers and 
flashers still work on the front of the bus?

I believe the front indicators ground right next to the housing on the 
inside of the nose. Correct?

Where do the rear blinkers ground at?

Thanks to all that can help.


Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- cheap
        or       5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)
    TRADE

