From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 22 Aug 2002 13:32:38 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] H4s

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII


i too have had the grey parking light wire burn up. not 
fun, but not the end of the world either. i think in most states it's illegal to 
drive with just the parking lights anyway. plus all you have to do is 
unhook the grey wire from the switch if it smokes and problem solved 
until a repair can be made.

i too have not had "oncoming driver complaints" with 
either my bosch or hella h-4's. i know the fluting on the india lamps is 
pitiful. i'm surprised they even bothered trying to make it a fluted lens. 
probably would have been better off with just a piece of plain glass. 


also, on my month long trip, i drove cross country (twice) 
and a few thousand miles in between the x-country jaunts with my h-4's on all 
the time. switch never got hot, no wires burnt. and this is on a 59 with the 
stock wiring set up (6 fuse block), where the low beams aren't even fused at all 
(look at a wiring diagram on thom's site if you don't have one handy). the lows 
are run together directly off the dimmer switch.

jon


----- Original Message ----- 


 





 

On Thu, 22 Aug 2002, OldVolks General wrote:

 

  The parking lights aren't fused, seen many a smoked wire when the 
parking

  light wire chaffs against the headlight bucket hole.

 

  ps. Be prepared to get the finger a lot from people with your 
new

  headlights. I have those in my DD (4 years now) and when in a caravan 
I am

  made to drive lead because my lights blind those that would be ahead 
of me.

 

Now that's odd.  H4s should have a much more controlled low beam 
than

sealed beam lights, with a sharp cutoff for the low beam to the left

side.

 

 

OTOH, if the quality of the Indian lenses and reflector matches the

quality of their metalwork there might be a 
problem!


------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

