From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2006 14:49:04 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] sell, or store to fix later.

You asked:

""If you were going to store your van in an apartment parking lot for six 
months, what would you do to it besides just making sure that it was clean 
inside and the batteries were disconnected?

thx,
-g""


Good advice from the list.  Extra advice:

(1) Take anything/everything of value OUT of the vehicle.  Take the radio 
out.  Clear out the glove compartment except for some stuff that can be 
taken.  Gloves, ice scraper, Playboy....

(2) Do not lock the doors, except LOCK the rear hatch and the engine 
compartment door. Dedicated vandals could come in through the engine 
compartment hatch from the inside, but at least you won't give them easy 
access from the outside.  And you are not protecting from the dedicated, but 
from the casual kid or street person who just needs to find some stuff.  
They would come in from the three doors.

(2a) Do not secure the latches on any of your vent windows.  They should be 
easy to open from the outside, and obviously so.

(3) Leave something of nominal value inside the VW, but not visible from a 
casual look through the windows.  Like, a $5 bill in the ash tray, and a 
heavy coat during winter months and a fresh six-pack in a brown paper sack, 
with receipt showing it was newly bought, between the driver & passenger 
seats

(4) Catch a piece of paper or tissue or tooth pick in the door jams (all 3 
of them) so you can see if someone opened the door.

(5) Perhaps a 'thank you' for anyone entering your VW to find. A sincere 
'thank you', with a 'God Bless You ' at the end.  And a ball point so they 
could respond to you.

You're welcome....    and .....  God Bless You ! ! ! !

Barry sends


(Oh yes, loosen or better yet, remove your wheel lug nuts, and put the wheel 
covers back on.  If someone is going to pull your vehicle away, at least 
they won't get very far.  I mean, even the most dedicated vandals, with 
points, extra ignition wires, what ever, are not going to have spare lug 
nuts....)

Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.
