From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Feb 2006 16:33:22 -0500
Subject: Re: sell, or store to fix later.

I have heard this about mothballs as well from a pretty reliable and knowledgeable source, so there must be something to it. I have a couple of Fieros that I keep on hte side of my house. It sounds really trashy, I know.. but it's not that bad. They're hidden behind some bushes and are behind a nice wooden fence. 

Never the less, one of them was my first car, which I plan to keep FOREVER. I almost never drive it. I start it up every other week just to keep everything flowing properly and just move it back and forth on the pavers I put down. I take it out every once in a great while. I completely rebuilt the motor, but the suspension, steering, and pretty much everything else is shot. I don't REALLY have time to work on it right now as I'm trying to finish up all the work on my 73 VW Bus and my 81 TransAm that occupy the garage. 

My point of this is that, those two Fieros I have on the side of the house, one is a PARTS car, and the other is my nice Fiero. The parts car I'm in the process of stripping and will eventually cut up (it has no title). We don't generally have any mice around here, but just as a precaution, I put the mothballs in the nicer Fiero. I used two boxes, one that I put in the engine compartment, and one that I put in the passenger compartment. The interior of the car smells like an old woman's closet, but it got the job done. I have not had any mice in my nice Fiero, but I did find a couple of nests in the parts car (which I didn't put anything in). 


My rule of thumb with deciding whether or not to KEEP or store a car for fixing later is this:

1 - If it's worth money now, and is quickly depreciating, and you know that you won't have time to fix it, then sell it. I had a 1997 Pontiac Grand Am GT that had some minor timing issues. I could no longer use it as my daily driver. While I could have eventually fixed it, I decided to sell it because I just didn't have the time.

2 - If the car you want to store and fix later is going to start costing you money JUST to have it, then you should get rid of it. Like for example, if you have to pay storage fees or tickets, or it starts to become a hassle, then it's just not worth it. Chances are you don't REALLY know how long it's going to be until you get around to fixing it. 


Todd



>To: type2(-at-)type2.com
>From: Gary Sluggo Watts
>Subject: Re: sell, or store to fix later.
>
>Thanks for all the suggestions. My neighbor gave me another one to pass
>along similar to the Irish Spring Soap. She said to leave a box of
>moth balls in the center of the bus with a few holes punched in it. 
>She said that this will also prevent vermin from taking up residence.
>
>-g
