Date: Thu, 16 Feb 2006 15:29:33 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Help with heat needed

Hey, David.
I believe the article you read is the bulley-hewlett-something or other
article that covers like 4 pages, right?  Ok, that article was based on
working on a vanagon, so it needs to be altered a little for working on
a bus.  I don't know what the heat system in a '78 looks like exactly,
but I imagine its similar to my '72: heat exchangers through a heat
riser to the flappers.  From the flappers through accordion tubes to
the junction box.  From the junction box through a long tube to the
front of the bus. Just behind the front beam, there's a little
side-shoot to the floor vent.  After the floor vent, it goes over the
front beam, into the steering coverplate thingy and then up into the
floor at the very front of the bus.  Your heat might have another
junction for a rear vent too.  I don't know.
I'm in the process of fixing up my heat, so I've looked at mine a bit
lately.  If that sounds mostly like yours, then I think we're pretty
close.  The big tube they talk about on the webpage is referring to
that section of pipe that's actually the easiest to get to when you lay
down under your bus.  We can pretty much ignore the 2 paragraphs
following the disection of the Mylar insulation on the webpage, and go
directly to the 3rd paragraph.  This covers stuff we have in common:
the long tube and the accordion.  He talks about paper tubes and a fuel
tank near the front.  We have more steel tubing going to the steering
innards instead.  Well, at least I do.  I am going to insulate as much
of that as I can.
I was thinking about a bilge blower, and was thinking to mount it
either at the end of the long tube or just past the junction with the
small outlet for the floor vent.  At this point, I'm not sure how
concerned I should be with the floor vent in terms of CFM.  If I have
any great ideas, I'll let you know.  Please do the same.  There are a
few different ideas on the type2 website under heat, but none of the
install instructions are terribly clear or directly applicable for that
Attwood 3" bilge blower.
I actually just ordered 25 feet of 4" insulation from
HectorsHardware.biz ($28 shipped) to do the insulation on the "big
tube" and anywhere else I can fit it.  I don't expect my insulation to
arrive before the weekend, so I probably won't be getting any further
along on my imsulation efforts until next week.  I'll let you know if I
find anything noteworthy.  Feel free to ask questions, I expect some
head scratching.
I hope that helps.  
Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR (expecting record low temps for the next 3 days)
1972 Westy (hapy)


--- "Mueller, David" <dmueller(-at-)stewartlaw.com> wrote:
> I have a 78 Westy and get a little heat and defrost but not much I
have read that insulating the paper tube with 4" Mylar and putting in a
bilge blower in line at the front end will do much to help.  I read the
long article in the archives about heat in a bus but it spoke of
putting on the insulation behind the front fresh air grill.  I cannot
visualize how I could get it down under to the paper tube.  

> Also how do I install the bilge blower (how to get access to a spot
where it can be installed, and how large should it be?  
