From: Jgb1974vwwesty(-at-)cs.com
Date: Thu, 20 Oct 2005 21:45:41 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: VW Bus Campout

I know it's very early, but it's never too early to get excited about camping 
in the Bus!

Granny Grose's Buses II  May 5-7, 2006  Beavertown,PA 17813

What is Granny Grose's Buses? Well, it's just another reason to bring out the 
Bus or Bug and camp with the family, along with fellow Volkswagen owners. 
Myself and a couple other Bus owners decided to host our own Bus campout. We have 
been camping with Granny Grose(campground owner) for about 5 years. She is a 
very kind lady and she makes you feel right at home. You can find her in the 
evenings at the camp store, sitting in her chair, telling stories of the past. 
It makes you smile, every evening when she goes to bed, she drives past each 
site wishing all a good night. 
The campground is nestled along the Bald Eagle Forest. Campground facilities: 
bathhouse with showers, playground, pavilion, game room, camp store, hiking, 
biking, and a fish pond.(no fishing) Firewood is very cheap! Only $5/ wheel 
barrel load! The campsites are $18/night. Price includes 4 adults per campsite. 
Each additional adult is $2 each per night. 3 VWs allowed per site. Includes 
electric and water. Reservations are to be made through me. Email me with your 
info. No deposits required. You can pay in full at the campout. Let me know if 
you plan to attend, I will reserve more sites as needed. FREE camping for the 
Bus that travels the farthest to the campout!! A FREE GGB2 magnet for each 
pre-registered Bus or Bug. 
There will be door prizes, 50/50 drawing, kid's activities, Saturday 
breakfast, and a Saturday evening carabus(7miles) to an "all u can eat" seafood 
buffet. Also, if you so choose, Sunday, there will be a carabus(6miles) to a 
Volkswagen show/ drag race at Beaver Springs Dragway. <A HREF="http://www.beaversprings.com/">www.beaversprings.com</A> 
Grose's Campground is located 2 miles off Route 522, in Beavertown, 
Pennsylvania. 24 miles north of Lewistown and 18 miles south of Selinsgrove. There are 
blue signs at the turn in Beavertown. You will turn left if coming from 
Selinsgrove. You will turn right, if coming from Lewistown. The campground will be 
on your right.    
