Date: Fri, 21 Oct 2005 10:08:14 -0700 (PDT)
From: Karl von Salzen <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>, type 2 List
Subject: Re: [T2] Friday kind of post

--- Mark Hineline wrote:

When I ask a question, I'm looking for an answer
from experience. If I ask how to do a task, or ask a
question about the best source of parts or supplies --
in fact, if I ask any question at all -- I'm looking
for experience. I know how to (a) search the archives,
b) search using google, (c) go to the library, (d)
search on amazon.com, etc. I never - well, I try never
to -- bother the list with questions that I can look 
up. (Sometimes I experience a acute cerebral
flatulence, and ask about something I should know I
can look up, but I do try not to).
 
But that's where experience comes in. There's
shelves and acres and tons and cubic kilometers of
drek out there. Parts that are garbage, books (like
the Haynes manual for buses) that aren't worth buying,

tools that are too little or too much to do the job.
 
Most people on this list want to help, and what I'm
saying is probably a little -- maybe a lot -- rude.
But I think it's a good guideline to keep in mind.
 
------------------------------------------------------

But a lot of times, a question is asked that has zero
zip nada info letting us know what year, model, engine
etc the person has.

"My gagging rod got stuck and choked it to death" does
not help one bit. 

Another problem is newbies that sign on, don't read
the charter, and ask simple FART questions that recur
once a week!....
Under ETIQUETTE AND LIST CULTURE is:

"--Search the List Archive and the Technical Resource
Library. 
In other words, consult the extensive resources
available to
you at www.type2.com before asking on the list. You
will get more
information faster that way. If you ask frequently
asked questions
(FAQs) or frequently annoying recurring threads
(FARTS), people will be
inclined to ignore you or become caustic."

The 'become caustic' part is probably what is annoying
you?
