Date: Fri, 21 Oct 2005 14:35:58 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Trip Report: The Estes Park Day Trip That Wasn't

We left the house (finally) yesterday morning around 9am. Loaded up with
coats, hats, gloves, etc, just in case it got really cold (even though it
wasn't supposed to.) Brought my electric cooler too with sandwich fixins for
lunchy.

Took I-25 all the way up to CO-66 and then cut from there to Estes Park.
Made some stops for potty breaks for the 2 year old, etc. We stopped at
Estes Lake for lunch (and paid the $5 license fee to park there. Grrr...) We
left there after a little while and headed for the Aerial Tram (
http://www.estestram.com/). Once we got there we saw a "Closed for the
season" sign. WTF? I never noticed any season listed on the website! Well,
it's there and I just missed it. Grrr...

Headed back towards Boulder wondering what to do. On CO-36 just outside of
Boulder my (G) light came on. Thinking I snapped the alt belt and knowing I
had a spare, I casually pull off to the side of the road.

So it begins.

I find the fan is loose. Kinda odd. Ok, I try to get the bolts back in but
they won't thread. I pull the fan off and this is what I found:

http://www.donimages.com/trips/estespark05/estespark12.jpg

One bolt was already snapped off when I go the bus, but the other two were
just fine and had many thousands of miles on them. I was hoping my cordless
drill was in the bus, since I knew I had a set of notsoeasyouts in the
toolbox. No joy. Well, I have roadside assistance on my cell phone. I'll
call and get towed to a shop and have them remove the sheared off bolts.

"Sorry, sir, we don't show you as a member." So, after doinking around on
the phone for an hour calling various customer service desks I finally get
it straightened out. A truck will be there in 90 minutes. It's nearly 4pm at
this point. "Would you like the phone number for a taxi service as well?"
Why would I want that? "The truck can only carry 2 passengers." Crap. I was
hoping that wouldn't happen to me. Sigh. Because we were like 100 yards from
the onramp of a street with a Chuck E Cheese, the wife took the kids there
while I waited for a tow truck.

10 minutes before 5pm the truck arrives. The driver apologizes profusely.
Apparently AAA gave him the wrong location so he went driving around looking
for me. A highway, a mile marker, and an offramp obviously weren't enough
for them to get it right. 2 closed shops and we finally find a shop on the
3rd try that even had a VW geek for a mechanic there. We chatted for a few,
but they all refused to work on the bus last night. Since it was after 5pm
and all. (Since when do mechanics work banker's hours?)

I walk back over the freeway to CEC and talk things over with the wife. A
few quick calls tells me a taxi home would be around $100. But there's a
hotel 2 blocks from the shop the bus is at. La Quinta Inn. Not bad for $79.
I would have been happy with Skank'O'Rama for $29 if that's what was nearby.
Heh.

We stay the night after a quick Target shopping trip for toothbrushes,
shampoo, and shirts to change into.

Bus was ready at 11am this morning. $82 in labor. No parts. I hauled butt
home after that because I didn't want to stop anywhere and take a chance
something else would happen. Sigh. Wife swears she's not going on another
roadtrip in the bus again. Ever. Ever.

A few more pics taken at various places during the trip here:
http://www.donimages.com/trips/estespark05/

--
Don
My eBay auctions: search for DurocShark!
