Date: Thu, 13 Jun 2002 22:38:16 -0400
From: busfool <busfool(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Natural Bus



Fbiffath wrote:

> At our Central Ohio Vintage Volkswagen Club meeting this evening, some ole'
> boy passed around a write up from the Roanoke Times (or something) with the
> cover story on Natural Bus.
> Nice job fellas!!!  I guess the news paper connections don't hurt either.
>
> Mark Dearing, you looked beautiful man.

Here's a link to the article:

http://www.roanoke.com/roatimes/news/story131843.html

I've been meaning to post a trip report, time has just gotten away from me.

Briefly; Chris, Roy (along with Emily and Berit), and I left Greensboro at
about 2:30 on Friday and had a lovely drive up 220 through Roanoke.  We
avoided as much of I-81 as possible, taking the scenic Route 11 (117)
instead.  My SC with a recently installed Mark Dearing rebuilt ran
beautifully, as did the engine Mark built for my former A-wagen now piloted by
Chris.  Roy, with his "Junkyard Wars" 1600 in the 76' Westy struggled a little
on the hills, but all in all we make the trip with out any problems.  This was
the Single Cab's second time out camping and the furthest I've driven to a
camp out (yet).

Camp was quite full by the time we pulled in at about 5:30, but those in the
Roanoke crowd were the most gracious hosts and hooked us up with a primo spot
behind them, complete with an unobstructed view of the swimming beach, river,
and the mountains!

Breakfast Burritos looked a little shaky at first, given that Snoopy wasn't
present, but the TN mechanized brigade stepped up with Dicko at the helm.
Once again, the masses were fed and satiated.

Chris and I were both mesmerized by the Vanagon Adventurewagen driven by Jay
and Lynn, and Buddha's movie theater setup later Saturday night was very
cool.  We had a clear view of the screen from our spot on the hill, and sound
was piped in via CB (thanks again to the TN crew!).

All in all, it was a killer inaugural event, everything was in place for a
happy event.  The scenery is gorgeous, the facilities are very nice, the camp
owners were into it, and there was enough elbow room to spread out.

Thanks again to Mark, Jeff, Wild Bill, and everyone else who made it the event
it was.

Chad Sibert

'69 SC


