From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Oct 2004 22:58:29 -0400
Subject: bad bus day/accident

Bad day yesterday in my bus...I went to my local shopping center. Parked my
bus right between the stripes (which most folks in the lot seem to have
trouble doing). I ran into the hardware store, then came back out to put my
purchase in the back before going to the grocery store. 

I saw someone looking at their station wagon trying to get around my bus and
into a parking spot. My heart skipped a beat-and I thought, "I hope she is
just trying to get around my bus, and has not hit it". 

I got to my bus, and saw she had actually hit the rear 'steel' bumper. It
didn't look like she had hit the rear corner of my bus(just the bumper), but
I couldn't quite tell. She was scared to move anymore without causing more
damage to my bus. I got into my bus-hoping that when I moved I would see
that she had only left some paint on my bumper.

I pulled forward about 3-6 inches. I was now clear of her car so she could
back away and we could assess the damage. (get ready for the bad part)

She got in her car, and hit the gas-without turning her steering wheel the
correct way. She proceeded to slam/drag her car against my rear
corner(driver side). 

I almost collapsed on the spot. 

At this point her car was lodged pretty tightly against my bus, and I
couldn't see anyway to extricate it clearly without further damage to my
bus. 

I couldn't pull any further forward-as the car parked in front of me was
about one foot outside it's parking area. We waited for a friend of hers to
come and move the car away from mine-with only a little more scraping.

Needless to say I was quite upset. I have contacted her insurance-they said
an adjuster should contact me with in two business days(I imagine by next
Wednesday).

I've been getting more and more fed up with drivers around here. It has
almost gotten to the point of me taking my bus and squareback off the
road...in the last week alone, I've had folks run red lights and almost hit
me, twice I've had folks pass me in a 'no-passing' area (I was driving the
speed limit, but too slow for them) and I had one guy pass me as I came to a
complete stop at a stop sign. This just in the last week. This doesn't
include all the folks who like to shove the front of their car so close to
my rear bumper, I think they were hemorrhoids in a previous life.

My patience is wearing thin...I think I need a vacation to somewhere where
folks aren't in such a rush to get to the next red light or stop sign. If
their god damn modern cars are so fantastic-why are they always rushing
around to get out of them as soon as possible?

Anyway-I've got to figure out what to do with the rear corner-either weld in
a new panel, or have it knocked out. My local mechanic was not sure of the
quality of replacement panels, he thought repairing the original might be
better...I'm looking for recommendations.

Any suggestions/comments.

Thanks for listening.



-kevin

'65 kombi
'71 FI man sqbk
somerville, ma
