Date: Mon, 06 May 2002 11:27:42 -0700
From: Kevin Leahy <kmleahy(-at-)pacbell.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 90.5s in a bus

I am currently running machine-in 88 P&C's in my '71 Westy with a 78mm
forged Scat crank. The main advantage of the 88's is the very thick walls,
which help to reinforce the cylinders from the greater side loads with a
stoker crank. Whether the thicker walls actually reduce engine temps is
debatable, but less blow-by due to less distortion is very believable (I
recommend you take a look at a set of machine-in 88's vs. the 90.5's, which
are supposed to be the same wall thickness as stock 85.5's).

My engine was built according to Gene Berg's recommendations, more or less,
and I am very happy with it. However, considering the expense and hassle of
an extra wide engine, these would be my recommendations:

Use a stock stroke crank with the stroker 90.5's (which reduce the
compression ratio without using as thick spacers to gain deck height).  88's
are not available in a stroker configuration.

Full-flow the case for an oil filter. Some people on the list (whom I
respect) believe that the GB lines are too small. I think they are adequate,
but a small increase in hose size yields a huge increase in flow, so it
couldn't hurt to go with a larger size.

Consider the aluminum cases that are coming out soon from CB Performance and
other retailers. Aluminum is far stronger than magnesium, as evidenced by T
IV cases.

Call Clyde Berg or Tim at GB and talk to them. I have found them to give
good advice for your situation.

Of course, many people think this is all heresy and that you should ditch
the 90.5's and go back to the original, stock condition of the motor. But is
that any fun?

Kevin

> Re my '71 Westy, immobile since Feb 01:
> Many thousand miles ago, my son bought a GB kit for his '69 bus and
> has never had to even tweak it, much less rebuild it. This approach
> is suddenly very appealing to me.
>
> Despite my misgivings about how pricey these GB kits are, I visited
> his web site.  I read there where, for his 1776 kit in a bus, he
> recommends using 88 mm Ps&Cs instead of 90.5s. He simply states that
> the engine will last a little longer.
>
> I have a set of GB 90.5mm heads, Ps&Cs that I sure would like to reuse.
>
> Is anyone running 90.5s in his bus? Any longevity or temperature data
> to guide me toward 88s or 90.5s?


