Date: Mon, 06 May 2002 14:56:36 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Type 2 Front Seat Replacement?

You end up sitting too high....

Will enough surgery it looked like it might work but I gave up before it 
was too late and just bought some Vanagon seats which slide right on to the 
late baywindow seat tracks.

Mine came out of an early Vanagon, were brown vinyl, and the driver's seat 
had a split. I will recover both to match my interior. MUCH more 
comfortable!!!!! Some of my old seat's problems were age and wear. Some of 
the seats' problems were poor design. My friend has stock seats that have 
new covers and stuffing and they still aren't as comfortable as these 
Vanagon seats. The Vanagon seats have a bit of contour to the stuffing and 
it fits the posterior better whereas the baywindow seats are simply flat 
and in many cases contain stuffing no more.

The later Vanagon seats are better yet I hear. There is a cut off though - 
a point where the newer Vanagon seats don't fit the baywindow tracks. Maybe 
the list can advise.

My seats were cheap but they generally go for about $50 a pair I think and 
it costs about $50 to send them from Mississippi to Tennessee for example.

There is a U-Haul box that does the job perfectly. You sit one seat in the 
bottom of the box and turn the other seat over so that the second seat's 
headrest in on the seat base of the first seat.

At 12:42 PM 5/6/02 -0500, you wrote:
>Chris,
>
>Hey, I was looking thru the archives at Type2.com for info about someone who
>had replaced the front seats in their bus with some seats from a car. I saw
>your posting where you were thinking about using a pair of GTI seats you
>had. I wondered if you had done it and how well it worked. I was thinking of
>doing the same but was also thinking that you might end up sitting too high.
>
>Thanks,
>
>Chuck Brown

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


