From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 12 Aug 2001 01:09:04 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Front bearing packing theory...

In a message dated 8/10/2001 8:21:33 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com writes:   << After sitting in storage in 
several Texas barns since 1964, you should have seen the jellified crap that 
came out of the grease cavity between the bearings!  >>

Hi Bill,
The same goes for wiper motor gear boxes!  If you do not know if the wiper 
motor has been remove dissassembled and all the linkages regreased and gear 
box repacked with about 1/4-1/3 full of white lithium or clear lithium 
grease.  Do not fill it or use thick axle grease or it will make the wiper 
motor struggle!  Result is a faster non-struggling wipers and far, far quiter 
running.  We used to have to yell over the wiper system to be heard in our 60 
panel camper conversion before we regreased/repacked it.
  As for your question it is best to fill the area between the bearings 
enough to flood the bearings when they get hot at high RPMs, but not so full 
as to allow no airspace around the spindle.  In CV jointed rear suspension it 
is well known if you completely pack the stub axle bearings the bearing life 
is drasticly reduced to about 20,000 miles or less.  This is due to the 
grease being stirred between the spindle/stub axle and the drum/bearing 
housing.  You might have done this experiment in school by taking a electric 
beater and a small container of room temp water.  You can raise the temp of 
the water by the strirring which causes friction.  In the VW this results in 
grease being taken up in temp beyond it's lubricating operating temp.
  Interestingly this may not be so much of a problem with the front bearing 
as the rear CV jointed stub axle bearings have the strain of the power train 
against them.  In the over 250,000 miles of bus/truck driving we have yet to 
install a new wheel bearings in our front suspension, but have replaced 
several times the RGB bearings in the same VWs!  We just keep inspecting, 
repacking them every 30,000 miles or five years which ever comes first.
Eric&Barb
