From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 12 Aug 2001 13:16:41 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: My new 65 Deluxe!

Semi-related guff. I got a Type II off this guy and when it came time
register, turns out it had been registered as a "Bug" for 20 years
(according to the title), and a "5" in the VIN was an "S," also on the
title. To complicate things even further, the guy left for Nepal the morning
after I bought it (which is why I bought it, to help him out with his plane
fare, plus I wanted a a bus to fall in love with after the one I had for 19
years was killed by a red-lighter).

Back to the DMV... You can imagine the headache THAT was with the bus
sitting right outside in the parking lot. It took me three HOURS trying to
correct the information, after my state's DMV flat-out refused to register
the vehilce in my name, to get a supervisor to come out and look at the
vehicle, to see with their own two little round eyeballs that the previously
mis-registered vehicle wasn't a bug, and to finally correct the typo in the
VIN that DMV personnel made to begin with (and which its previous owner had
never checked).

Given the Rambo attitude of the law in my state, that one typo can result in
the driver being arrested for driving an unregistered vehicle. In fact, I
was pulled over in my bus once because a cop who couldn't figure out my
plates were state-issued amateur radio call plates specifically made for
recognition by law enforcement; usually found on upscale SUV's, he just
couldn't handle 'em on a VW bus, although it was brimming with radio
antennas and was well known around law enforcement and search and rescue
having worked with them for years. He even approached me and the bus in a
defensive position, gun drawn, demanding to know if I had any weapons --
and, yes, as an radio operator, I knew he hadn't gotten any info to indicate
anything to justify it... I monitored him calling the 'fictitious' plate!).

This is my illustration of, and the concurrence with, the importance of
making sure all documentation is correct down to a "t." The 60's do live, as
anyone who remembers 'em can attest.

Craig

67 Sondermodel
Reno, NV

