Date: Fri, 23 Jul 2004 12:10:41 -0700
From: ian <ian(-at-)sonic.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The Oil Leak of the Damned

... okay, overly dramatic titles, it is a really horrible leak.  I've
searched the archives and come up empty-handed, so now I turn to the list
itself for help.

But first, a (re)introduction.

Hi.  I'm Ian.  I've been an on-and-off subscriber since 1999, live in
Northern California, and have a frumpy old Dakota Beige 78 Westy that I
absolutely adore.  The bus has been parked since January, on account of a
dead transmission, so I had unsubbed until I could get it fixed.  I've got a
replacement (used) tranny now, and it goes in next Wednesday (and Thursday,
and Friday...) Hopefully it'll work.

So...  The Leak!

There is oil coming out of the center of my fan hub.  It leaks into the
middle of the fan, at which point the fan picks it up and blows it all over
everything.  I have fond memories of when this engine was clean, but no
more...  Since I'll have it out next week, I figured it was the perfect time
to clean it up again and fix the leak once and for all.  Only problem is, I
have no idea why it's leaking!

The leak is definitely through the center of tne fan hub (that is, oil is
running between the hub and the crankshaft).  There is no oil on the front
(FIF) of the fan.  It is not a problem with the rear oil seal that's pressed
into the crankshaft.  I'll probably replace that anyway, though.  It looks
like the bulk of the oil is probably making its way down the keyway, though
it's hard to tell for sure.

The leak isn't so pronounced that I have to fill it constantly, but it is
serious enough that there is now oil *everywhere* on that engine.  I power
washed it a couple times at the local carwash (after allowing it to cool, of
course), but I had to keep using it since it was my daily driver for most of
last year and the year before.  On the upside, I now know where the little
air leaks in my tin are, since those spots have big plumes of oil leaking
out of them.

The engine is an AVP rebuild with maybe 15-20k on it.  It ran without
leaking for more than a year (about 10k), so I'm not sure why this would
start all of a sudden.

The things I've tried so far:

- sealing underneath the big washer on the end of the fan hub with silicone
- replacing the rubber o-ring underneath the fan hub, that presses between
the hub and crankshaft
- putting silicone on that o-ring
- replacing the entire fan hub with a different (used) one
- covering the entire end of the crankshaft, the seal, the washer, and the
mating surface between the fan and the hub with silicone

None of these things can stop it.  I have no idea what's going on.

Is the oil behind the fan hub supposed to be under pressure?  If so, is it
possible that one of my pressure relief valves is malfunctioning?  If not,
is it possible there's a blocked oil passage someplace that's causing
pressure to build up back there?

Anyway, that's my story.  Any ideas?

-Ian
