Date: Fri, 23 Jul 2004 15:48:43 -0600
From: "Karen I. Eblen" <Karen.Eblen(-at-)colorado.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: brake light/flasher?

I have a brake light/flasher question. I don't know much about wiring 
and that there are many problems that could be caused by one similar 
failed bit, but want to get some advice if it's available. I have just 
spent a good bit of time reading the archives, and have yet to locate a 
scenario quite like mine, although I have read many good ones.  I did 
read the posts regarding how to troubleshoot , find a short, etc., but 
is that my only resort for this particular problem?

I have checked all fuses and connections. My headlights and high-beams 
work, as do my front running lights, tail lights, hazard lights, turn 
indicator lights and brake lights.  They all work except for the right 
rear. The right taillight works, but it does not light up when the 
blinker is on, nor when I turn the hazards on, nor when I press on the 
brakes.  I checked the bulb and put in a new one, cleaned the bulb 
connectors and the wire connecters in the tail light assembly.  The 
wires to light are old and very stiff.  Also this right rear taillight 
has been crunched before, though I'm guessing (electrically challenged) 
that since the tail light comes on the assembly is OK?

Recently, I  have had the B dash light come on, but when I turn the 
ignition, or for example when I installed the battery after having it 
out for a charge.  My brakes are new and bled, and they work great.
I've read that this could be pressure switches on the master cylinder, 
but would the left brake light work if this was the problem? When one 
goes out can it just affect one side? (Apologies if I missed this in the 
archives).

Someone told me this happened to their bus when their turn indicator 
switch went bad... I know that it is the flashing trigger problem as 
well as a brake light issue in terms of my rear right, but why do the 
others work if this is the problem? (I know, insert mysterious wiring 
story here...)  My turn indicator assembly has always been loose on the 
steering column, and my left indicator does only work when I move it, 
 there's a problem with the catch for lack of a better word.  If it does 
stick it flashes on its own, but if not I have to flash manually.  The 
right will catch and flash on its own.  I'm sure there's an explanation 
that could signify this as a short and wiring culprit, but does it sound 
feasible since the exterior lights all work except for the right rear?

Thanks for your time,
Karen
