To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Sat, 7 Jan 2006 17:20:12 -0500
Subject: New 1600 engine (mexican longblock)

I had a (nearly) two week vacation (I had to go back one day early).  I 
had planned R & R, but I wound up installing a new engine in the bus.

What arrived in a crate was a longblock assembled with valve covers 
(and gaskets), NGK long reach spark plugs, and a  flywheel (I didn't 
check endplay).  It is a Brazilian AS41 case that I am told is machined 
in Mexico.  It also comes with a new oil cooler which you will have to 
mount using your old bracket (and Hoover bit if you have one).  You'll 
need to drill and tap for the mounting stud for the thermostat bellows.

For a clean installation, you'll also need to get:
exhaust installation kit [PLUS exhaust manifold gaskets and hardware 
for the front of the heater boxes (or J-tubes)]
gaskets (2) for the fuel pump
gaskets (2) and MAYBE deflector plate for the oil breather
gaskets (2) for the intake manifold
intake manifold boots (2)
clutch kit
engine compartment seal (2 pieces)
fresh air hose
fresh air hose seals (2)
oil breather draft tube seal
throttle tube seal (I was unable to find this part - it goes in front 
of the fan shroud)
MAYBE a new distributor drive pinion [and spring and washers (2)]

I took the opportunity to upgrade my ignition to an SVDA distributor.  
If you go that route, be sure to get a new o-ring to go with it.

NOTE: The exhaust installation kit had copper nuts for mounting to the 
heads, but the muffler clamps were one-piece (one bolt), which I found 
difficult to use.  I had a set of the old two-piece (two bolt) muffler 
clamps and used them instead.

**Save all your hardware from the old engine**

You will also need (from the old engine):
distributor drive pinion (see above)
pulley (I got a new ETCHED degree pulley)
all the stuff from the top of the old case (longblock) up - this 
includes intake and exhaust, fuel pump, generator (or alternator) and 
stand/breather etc, etc, etc

Be sure to set the valve lash!!!

As usual, when I tried to start the engine, it wouldn't.  First, I 
realized that the placement of the spark plug wires in the distributor 
cap was offset by one (counterclockwise) from the old (009) 
distributor.  It STILL wouldn't start.  Then I realized I had #1 & #2 
wires backwards.  Turned the key, and without using the gas pedal, it 
started right up and idled purrrr-fectly.

It still starts before one complete revolution (no gas pedal).  Vacuum 
at idle is 20.  Oil pressure at idle is 50.  Head temps are high (about 
475), but that should come back down as the rings seat and the vacuum 
diaphragm in the distributor becomes more pliable.  MPG is 18 (one 
tank), but should improve as things break in.  It is much quieter than 
the old engine, which indicates to me that the rebuild was probably a 
little sloppy, contributing to the broken crankshaft.  I have enough 
spare parts now (two cases. etc) to build a complete longblock, which I 
will do in my own time (meticulously), so that I will have a spare 
should I (or anyone else) need it.  I will also have a case for the 
next bonfire!   ;-)

Chris

What's the perfect automobile?
Nothing more than you really need.
What it takes to get you where you want to go.
Volkswagen Type 2.
