From: Dave <maduncledave(-at-)charter.net>
To: baybuses <type2(-at-)type2.com>, splitties <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 26 May 2005 20:52:59 -0400
Subject: A     resurrection (friday)

I know it isn't a bus or a ghia, but I did a resurrection today.  Years
ago, I traded a carb rebuild on a 40's era Packard for an old BMW
motorcycle.  I rode the poor BMW in and out of Boston traffic for about
a year before someone decided that it was a good idea to come to a
complete stop before changing lanes.  On the SouthEast expressway in
Boston.  My poor old BMW was bent and dented, but we still rode home.  I
never much liked crashing perfectly good motorcycles.

Once home and the bruises faded, I decided to redo the bike.  It was fun
to ride, kinda funky, and for a 1964 600 cc opposed twin could actually
get out of it's own way.  So off I went to Freeman Cycles in Beverly for
parts.  Skip at Freeman gave much of his time and advice, and I remain
today in his debt for the patience he showed.  My friend John helped
with paint.  I did the assembly, straightening of salvageable bent
pieces, and made sure it went together right.

In the end I had a really nice old BMW that was almost too good to ride
every day into Boston.  So I did the logical thing, sold my GSXR 1100
and bought another BMW for commuting and general purpose.  That old R75
has almost a half-million miles on it now.

Years passed, the family grew, and I moved to Miami, relegating the old
BMW to storage until I retired from the military.  The old BMW made its
way into the basement behind the couch for 5 years, collecting dust and
random objects.

Last night I got the urge.  I have been working through some things and
after all these years, still have that love of 2 wheeled contraptions. I
realized that I had given up something I love dearly for no good
reason.  Out from behind the couch came a dusty old motorcycle with low
tires and mirrors looking at the floor and the ceiling respectively. 
Out the door after a breath of air into the tires.  Out to the front
where the hose waited.

As I washed off 5 years of dust and dead spiders, there emerged a most
beautiful sight.  She was still shiny.  She beckoned me to unknown
adventures over the next hill and around the next corner.

Before that could happen, I checked out fluid levels, all were fine, so
I promised a fluid change once we got out for a good warmup run.  Popped
valve covers to check what I already knew, the valves were spot on. 
Points were inspected for gap and conductivity.  Fresh gas added to the
empty tank.  Turn the petcock, watch the gas pour out of the carbs, rap
them with a wrench to loosen the float.  The gas stopped pouring out. 
Push in the key.  Kick.

Kick,  kick.  
Kick,  kick.  
Kick,  kick.  
Kick,  kick.  
Kick,  kick.  

chuh Prrrrrrrrrrr.

She chumbled to life settling into the old BMW idle, rocking side to
side as the old beasties are wont to do.  I grinned.  That grin that, to
those who don't understand, makes them really nervous though they don;t
know why.  I let her idle, feeling the exhaust pipes to see if both
cylinders were firing evenly, with about the same mix.  I shut her off
after a little bit to finish cooking the chicken.

After dinner I jumped into the shower, put on suitable gear, went
outside.  1st kick Chuh Prrrrrrr.  Snick into gear.  Ease out the
clutch.  A few wobbles then out the driveway we went.  I hadn't ridden
in 5 years, more like 9 since I rode this bike, but the muscle memories
were there and my riding technique slipped back into place with the ease
of a well known lover.  Up the road, not too far since we had no plate
on the back.  2 miles out the winding country road, 2 miles back.  Take
a left at the stop sign to see how she pulls the big hill.  Just like I
remembered.  Back down the hill, 1 big backfire right at the driveway to
announce we had returned.  Pull the helmet off over my grin.

Mmmmmmm.

Dave Jersey
-- 
Mad Uncle Dave, not the Dead Air guy on WNCW.  Proud member, Full Moon
Bus Club.  http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com
