From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 19 Feb 2005 17:02:43 -0700
Subject: Oil cooler question update

I'm being overly cautious but here goes. I pulled the engine this morning
and stripped off the needed parts to get to the oil cooler. When I removed
the cooler, the seals dodn't show any signs of being compressed or mangled
for the month or so that it has been installed but not in use. Removed the
thick washers from the engine side of the cooler and moved them to the nut
side along with the wavy washer that was already there. Now the only thing
between the cooler and the block are the seals. Torqued down to 60in.lbs.
(5ft.lbs.)  Now I'm about to reassemble all the parts that were removed. I
just wanted to post this and see if everyone agrees that this is correct or
incorrect before I put everything back on. I realy want to get some milage
on this engine before I have to pull it out again!
Thanks to all who have helped me out on this,
Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know


> My previous post explains my oil cooler problem. After posting it I went
out and did more inspection. It is definatly the cooler seal or seals. when
looking in from the drivers side I can see the oil dripping off the cooler
flange
onto the top of the oil filter. :~( As best I can see both seals look square
in
their seats. I see that I installed the spacer rings between the case and
the cooler. They were there when I removed the cooler but I am puzzled about
them. The Bentley for this 80 Vanagon makes no mention of these spacers, nor
does the Bentley for my 75. But my Chiltons manual does indicate that they
are
needed,"Types 3 and 4, 2/1700, 2/1800 and 2/2000 have a spacer ring
between the crankcase and the cooler at each securing screw. If these rings
are
omited the seals may be squeezed too tightly, resulting in oil stoppage and
result in engine damage."

> My question is, could these spacers be keeping the seals from being
compressed enough to do their job? Does any one know what the thickness of
these
spacers
is supposed to be? I would like to know for sure that this is not going to
>leak again and want to check every thing I can.
