Date: Sat, 19 Feb 2005 18:38:04 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Idle issues follow up (Long, as usual)

Well, I replaced all the hoses on the carb central idle circuit. In a
Pep Boys parking lot. ;-)

Timing was drastically off judging by how soon the power drops off. I
don't know how it changed, but whatever. Still, I can't time it until
I get the idle worked out. I've been trying to perfect the necessary
method: Start the bus. Find a way for it to idle long enough for me to
run to the back. Hold the linkage with one hand. Hold the timing light
with the other. And with my third hand, turn the distributor. heh
Obviously I haven't had any luck. Timed the old fashioned way: By ear.
I moved the powerband up some but a slight retardation, but still not
there.

Anyway, as I said I did the hoses. I used a dab of Seal All around
each end of each hose to help assure myself that they would be sealed
tight. I also put the red elbows back on the brake booster lines, with
Seal All as well. Went for lunch to let the Seal All cure. When I got
back I warmed up the bus and broke out the old propane torch and
sprayed propane around the connections (unlit, of course). Not a
hiccup. Those hoses are sealing tight.

The throttle response is crisper than ever before. Possibly crisper
than my fuel injected Volvo  (which makes me wonder about vacuum
leaks...). I did some minor tweaking to the levers on the carbs to
perfectly syncronize the opening moment. Very nice feel there now.

BUT IT STILL WON'T IDLE!!!!

Everything should be close enough to get an idle out of the bus. I
even opened the air screw all the way. Nada. Played with the mixture,
a half turn at a time. Zip. Timing tweaks. Zilch.

Now here's what I think I need to do. While apartment hunting this
morning, I heard my very own cylinder chirp. The descriptions here of
the other listmember's chirp (sorry, I forgot who it was) were
perfect. LoL!

I'm guessing the torture I put that poor bus through on the way here
(with friggin leaky hoses) provided enough heat expansion and
contraction to loosen some things. Combine that with the below
freezing temps here and my lack of thermostatically controlled cooling
flaps and my poor engine didn't stand a chance. I think that most
likely tightened the valves on that head.

I know I now need to get under there and torque the heads and readjust
the valves. Problem is I'm in a hotel. At night here in Colorado it's
too friggin cold to be hanging out under a bus. But during the daytime
I'm afraid the hotel will call a cop on me or something. Since I'm out
here for work, not living here yet, I'm nervous about risking anything
that may either get me kicked out of the hotel (that the company paid
for) or get my bus impounded or something.

Any suggestions? Or even better, a shop in the Englewood area that
does VW's? I looked in the phone book and didn't see any aircooled
mechanics listed... I hate the idea of someone else getting that
intimate with my bus, but I don't know what else to do with him. :-(



-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White goes to DENVER:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/denvertrip
