Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2005 17:17:21 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Working on the Rivi

Work and off time finally got together enough for me to get the axle ON
the bus last night (actually, work was so slow I slept most of the day
yesterday and was wired up when midnight rolled around).

Well, mostly in. The passenger side OUTER flange (on the wheel) has two
bolts broken off in holes that I didn't notice until I cleaned it up really
good. So, that's held on by 4 right now. At least they weren't right next
to each other.

I couldn't get enough height to get an angle for a drilling attempt. When I
get it out of the "garage" (storage unit) I'll back it up on to a set of
ramps and try drilling through them with the CV in place as a guide. Since
the holes go all the way through the flange I should be able to "core" the
broken bolts with a small bit then use a small diameter wood screw to bind
them and screw them out the back.

Started it up and the clutch feels good. It was ready to climb over my
wheel chocks and leave the building in 1st and 2nd. I can find all the
gears fairly easily but the shifter is sloppy up front. Plus I don't have
to push down to get into reverse. Got some checking to do there.

Didn't run it long because a) It gets hard to breathe REAL fast in a little
10x20 box with no breeze and a running ICE and 2) with the wiring mess up
front I still haven't been able to finish hooking up the oil pressure gauge
-- and the idiot lights still don't work..

If the weather clears I have a job tomorrow hanging security cameras at the
storage units (for three months free rent on the other 10x20 I just got to
move the '74 into - right next to the one I have now and I also have
permission to take the wall down to make it a 20x20 for the two buses {bus
and bug when I start driving the Rivi}). I'll probably pull the Rivi home
when I'm done if it looks like it will STAY clear so I can work on the
electricals out in the sun.

http://www.phorce1.com is back up. No changes since the day it was taken
down in '03. I'll try to get some '04 photo pages up and set up albums for events.
When I can get my "photo album" scripts automated enough I'll ask for photo
collections to add to the site. 

Gerald
