Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2005 16:53:00 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Bah! I'm such a wuss... (What's with me and long posts?)

I don't know why I was worried about working on the bus in the hotel
parking lot. *smacks self with old greasy valve cover gasket*

I went down as soon as the hotel manager left for the night. (See?
Flirting with front desk clerks DOES pay off!) Popped the valve covers
off. Well, after fighting with the left side one. Do all T4 busses not
have enough clearance for the bail to go all the way down on the left
side? I had to pop the bail off the head altogether, as usual. And
this is with 2 different sets of heat exchangers.

Anyway, checked the 4 head nuts I could get to. All were fine. Did a
valve adjustment. All 4 exhaust valves were tight, only the #2 intake
valve was tight. None were dangerously tight though... All but one
less than 1/4 turn of the adjusting screw. #1 exh valve was nearly a
half turn. I think I loosened at least one a bit too much... Pretty
loud tick. But I'd rather have it too loose than too tight. I can fix
that later...

Anyway, put the whole kit&kaboodle back together with new valve cover
gaskets, fought with lining up the stupid left side bail in the hole,
smoked a cigarette and started up GWB.

IT IDLED!!!

Well, for a moment anyway. But that's ok. The mixture screws were so
out of whack from trying to get it to idle before that it didn't
surprise me. I knocked them both down to 2 1/2 turns and tried again.
A loping, misfiring, 600rpm idle. But still an idle. I warmed it up
and checked the timing really quick. Too retarded by like 10 degrees.
Set it to 7.5 and the idle picked up to almost 700.

Adjusting the air screw didn't bring up the idle, so I opened up the
mixture screw a half turn. Bus promptly died. Turned it back and
started again. Leaned the mixture a half turn. Idle picked up. Another
half turn and the idle was at 1200!!

I then set the mixture per Bentley, and in the process of getting it
nailed down it started sprinkling on me. Stupid storms.

THANKS CALIFORNIA FOR SENDING THIS MY WAY!    

heh

Anyway, it was no biggie because I was finished. Only thing left is to
snug up the points... Dwell is too short at 25 degrees. Another thing
that can wait for better weather. Tomorrow is supposed to be cold and
cloudy, but no rain. So I'll tackle that then.

Bus didn't chirp while doing the test run around the parking lot.
We'll see tomorrow on the way to work if that's improved as well.

Thanks for listening to my rants, whines, and not giving me sh!t about
it. Sometimes ya just gotta go do it and quit worrying about doing it.

-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White goes to DENVER:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/denvertrip
