From: Dave <maduncledave(-at-)charter.net>
To: splitties <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, baybuses <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2005 20:05:53 -0500
Subject: 100 Lb depleted Uranium bowling ball

or, Trip Report Edisto Freeze yer Toe

4Let's go to Edisto Freeze Yer Toe, I haven't been to that campout yet!
said the lovely Crazy Auntie Sherry (CAS). Remembering well the first
one, where the warmest it got was a blazing 35-ish my initial reaction
wasn't just no..... Since she is the love of my life and I spoil her
shamelessly, I told my lovely lady that if I could get the time off from
work, we'd go, providing I got the chance to do the left rear wheel
bearing and other needed maintenance on the Award Winning Burrito
Express (henceforth AWBE for brevity). (short form is 4Yes Dear!). I
made the mistake of mentioning at work that I needed that Thursday off,
and boss said I already had that Wednesday off why don't I take the
whole week off. Bummer huh? So I worked at the parts store (part time
gig) Monday and Tuesday closing just so I'd have to rush myself to get
everything done in 2 days.


Wednesday I had to drive a box of pee to the Asheville drug lab (one of
the 4perks! of the job), go shopping with CAS, bury a most wonderful
puppy (no joy in Mudville there), east dinner and such. I had already
removed the bearing carrier and brakes from the AWBE, had bearings and
seals (I thought), so Wednesday night, while watching Creature from the
Black Lagoon, I did the bearings. The seal that came in the kit was the
wrong one (not obtained from bus list vendor) and it took 2 1208's so I
reused the seals that didn't really look that bad. The outer bearing
looked like it had been spinning the race, and was too easy to take out.
The replacement bearing went in harder so I hope it was a simple .002
clearance issue with the old bearing.


Thursday dawned bright and warm. After coffee and scratching (Poison Ivy
from a tree job I did last week), I headed out to the barn to work on
AWBE. Bearing carrier went in smooth, brakes went on sweet, axle was
lined right up just like it was supposed to be. Then Steve came over and
bought the 81 Dasher wagon I had for sale so I kinda had to keep an eye
on him and provide conversation as needed. CAS returned from the dog
rescue place and Steve left so I headed back out to the barn. Popped
valve covers, found #4 intake at .008, tightened to .004. Checked
points, opened them to .016. Pumped the gas pedal a couple times and
AWBE fired right up. No skip or slight miss like I heard when I fired
her up the week before. Let her warm up, listen to the whole process,
the whirr and purr of a happy engine. Shut her off, oil change done,
bleed and adjust brakes, she was ready to go by 3:30.


Off to town to get LP tanks filled, a slight stumble that didn't
reoccur, stops here and there for next to last minute camping needs.
Stumble's probably just old gas I think.


Friday morning wake early roll over say Ow! from CAS punching me saying
it's time to get up. Made a deal, she brings me a cup of fresh coffee
and I'll get up. Deal done, I got up. Pack cold stuff into cooler, load
these 2 3 week old puppies we're watching, put on our things (insulated
coveralls). AWBE fires right up. Stop for gas and tire pressure check
and we're rolling. AWBE is happy to be on the road, we're happy to be
going camping, it's about 27 degrees (Fahrenheit) so the things are very
comfy. Many phone calls to a friend of CAS who's coming too, as usual
running late late late. Calls to Dicko and Lorrie to arrange rendezvous
since they were ahead of us.Down 321 to 85 to 485 (nice bypass around
Charlotte) to 77 to 26, stop for fuel and meet Dicko and Lorrie, run the
rest of the way down with them to 95 to 64 to 17 to 174 and into the
campsite.Oil temp running about 160, pressure keeping about 40, Dicko
calls and tells me my speedometer's about 10 MPH on the optimistic side.
That explains why everyone's flying by. Mysterious white smoke on
deceleration. After a few donuts around the campsite and the obligatory
lecture of 4Thou shalt nots! from the park people (it'd be shorter to
tell us what we can do) we ended up in site 9, right on the beach.


Set up went quick and easy, except the broken dealy on a wally-world
shade, walked around greeting old friends, handshakes and hugs and
howdy-do's. Cook dinner because we were hungry (chili and steaks and
taters onions shrooms in foil). Walk around meeting and greeting until
Mr Sandman came a-calling and off to bed we went. Got paid a visit by
the feral cats who ate our leftovers, got into the bread, ate our eggs,
and made a mess fo the site.


Saturday. Make coffee. Get reminded that Edisto Island State Park water
makes terrible coffee because it's so salty. MMMMMMMM Full Moon Bus Club
breakfast Burritos. I cooked up the chourizo and livermush. Separately
of course. Toss tortillas with one hand, eat with the other, alternate
talking with either hand. It's important to remember not to wave your
burrito around in front of a hungry dog. I learned that one a while ago
but thought it needed to be repeated. Clean up the damage, off to the
dumpster to get rid of trash. Walk down the beach past the grounded 2nd
class nun buoy to the point, picking up cool shells and a still live
clam that looked big enough to become part of a balanced diet. Walking
back, toss Mr Clam back into the water, see CAS walking towards me, pick
shells, walk and talk along the beach. We don't get enough time with
each other. Watch the dolphins catching their lunch and toying with the
people who are grokking at them. Shell bucket full, we go back to the
campsite then off walking and talking, play Dominoes, a run to the store
to buy way expensive wood and various other things. Buying wood rankles
because I have a yard full of red oak only 300+- miles away. Back to the
site to cook Pasta Fazool and heat Turkey soup for the pot luck dinner,
Dinner cooked, off to Snoopy's site to help feed the hungry masses.
After dinner, door prizes given, we started singing songs with the name
of the door prize winners, t'was fun. Off to clean the aftermath of
dinner, light the campfire and my after dinner cigar. After Dominoes,
Kurt stops by. Someone asks how much weight a Westy front top cargo
holder can hold. Kurt says he wouldn't put a 100 lb bowling ball in one.
We all started wondering where Kurt got a 100 Lb bowling ball and decide
that his must be made of depleted uranium. Kurt's not a small person and
he's Inspector Gadget's uncle and probably has more gadgets. So we're
not at all surprised that he's got a 100 lb depleted uranium bowling
ball lying around.


Walk around more, talking with the people, play some dominoes and
someone else's guitar. Dominoes fizzle out, walking around notice that
most everyone is crashed out. Load the fire with all the wood I bought
just because I'm not leaving it behind.


Sunday. Pack and load. Packed AWBE better than when we left, hook up
with Dicko and Lorrie for breakfast then on the road. AWBE still smoking
on deceleration. Thinking I might have a stuck ring, maybe running hard
up the hills will heat things up and free the rings. Oil temp running
about 180. Pressure's fluctuating between 30 and 40 depending on load
and RPM. Consider if I've got stuck rings or a bad fuel pump diaphragm.
Not making oil, and the oil's turned decidedly darker and smells like
combustion byproducts so we're back to the stuck ring theory. After
running 3500-4000 rpm up 95 to 26, the smoking has quit and pressure
settled into the normal 40+- so maybe I was right about freeing up the
rings. Stop for fuel off 77 at exit 34, say goodbyes to Dicko and
Lorrie, we drive off into the rain for the last leg of the trip.


The quantitative: 592 miles, 32.7 Gal 18.1 MPG 0.5 Qt oil.

$$ More than I care to admit.

Fun quotient? Hey I got to camp with the Full Moon Bus Club, eat
Breakfast Burritos, and discuss the merits of depleted uranium bowling
balls. Mostly I got to spend the weekend with my family and that's what
really counts.

-- 
Mad Uncle Dave, not the Dead Air guy on WNCW.  Proud member, Full Moon
Bus Club.  http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com
