Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2005 20:44:19 -0500 (EST)
From: Jonathan Farrugia <jfarrugi(-at-)umich.edu>
To: Andy <airhedz(-at-)alamedanet.net>
Subject: RE: [T2] wiring or rewiring

The American Boat & Yacht Council (the organization that specifies the
"building code" of the boating industry) specifies that connections NOT be
soldered for this very reason.
-------------------------------

Andy

this is very interesting if you have an online source i would like to read
up on what they have to say.  it seems logical but i have never seen it
happen this could also be due to the technique that i tend to use and the
application of a vehicle vs. a boat.  i don't know a whole lot about boats
but i would think that they tend to take a harder beating and have more
vibration than a car/truck.  a car has shocks to dampen vibrations where a
boat has none.

my technique is that if the solder splice is going to be a
1/4" then my shrink tube will overlap the wire jacket about 7/16-1/2" on
either side.  and since all the solder joints don't turn out perfectly
smooth most times i put a second larger piece of heat shrink tube over the
first for more insulation and chaffing protection.  then after that
everything goes in a fiberglass or sometimes poly sheath.  the end result
is a section that doesn't really flex at the repair site and has some
anti-strain protection.  other than that all i can say is that i have
performed this type of repair on 5 vehicles in the last 10 years and never
had a problem.  one of those vehicles is a econoline work truck that takes
a daily beating.

the biggest problems that i have with butt splice crimps has to do with
installation and volume requirements.  on the installation side is that
most people are going to run out and buy insulated closed barrel
connectors and slap them on with out covering them up with tape shrink
tube.  they are insulated right, what do you need more insulation for
;).  this is a sure recipe for failure 9 times out of 10, it creates a
open connection where corrosion starts and due to the lame nature of
insulated crimps, a poor connection to boot.  also on repairs where space
is at a premium butt splices make for a messy cluttered job.

really the best possible connection that i can think of is a splice lug
with a set screw.  a screw connection is always the best electrical
connection but a costly solution.  these were used before wire nuts, but
because of cost we use wire nuts now.

jonathan
