From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Paul Manning" <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>, "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 20 Feb 2005 23:50:23 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine install update

Paul,
The major key I found to pulling/installing a type 2 engine solo is to use a 
motor cycle/ATV jack. I put 2 2x4s across the lifting pads leaving space 
between them so the oil screen cover is between the boards. Usualy need to 
place a 3/4" thick board on top of the 2x4 closest to the tranny on my 
Vanagon to get the right angle. the Vanagon requires that the rear of the 
tranny be lowered 3" to have room to back the engine out. This puts the 
engine on a slight angle from front to back. I rest the tranny on a sling I 
built that is similar to the one in the Bentley.

My 75 Transporter does not need the 3/4" board. The tranny is mounted to the 
chassis above the bell housing. On this one I simply support the engine on 
the jack at its normal level position, Unbolt it from the tranny and back it 
out as far as possible. this will disengage the tranny input shaft from the 
clutch but not the pressure plate. At this point I lower the engine untill 
the fingers on the pressure plate touch the input shaft. Then I can back the 
engine up enough to clear the input shaft and lower the jack to the ground. 
If your rear apron is removeable then I imagine It's easier than mine.

The ATV jack makes working solo so much safer than a floor jack! It's more 
than worth the $50 I paid for it. The stability of the jack allows you to 
concentrate on what you're doing instead of worrying about the engine 
staying on the jack.

If all you need to do is grease the face of the throw out bearing, you may 
not need to pull the engine out completely. Pull the engine from the tranny 
untill the lower studs almost come out of the bell housing. Then take a look 
at the gap between the engine and bell housing. You might have enough room 
to reach in and greas it up. Having the lower studs still in the bell 
housing helps to keep everything lined up to go back together smoothly.

My best advise for pulling an engine solo is to take it slow and carefull. 
Never put yourself in a position where the engine could fall on any part of 
you! Always work from above the engine whenever possible. Keep in mind that 
you're working with about 300 LBS that likes being bolted in place and 
normaly moves very little in relation to your bus. Once unbolted the engine 
now wants to try out all the laws of physics. The careless mechanic gets to 
observe the laws of gravity, acceleration, and inertia at work all at once.

Good luck and caution to you. Don't be scared of pulling your engine solo, 
but do be carefull. I've done it several times, without even a close call.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know

> Very helpful. I may need to pull my engine out again after the clutch
> replacement last weekend. I think we failed to grease the plastic
> facing on the throwout bearing, so now a similar scraping noise can be
> heard. :( According to Bentley, I could drill a hole into the tranny
> and shoot grease in there, but I didn't do the tank ventlines anyway
> (which I regret), so that engine may come out again. I just don't like
> the idea of drilling a hole in the bottom of the transmission. This
> next time, though, I'll be flying solo, so this bit of advice will be
> very helpful.
> Congrats on getting your engine in. The ability to do this kind of work
> in a driveway amazes me.
> Thanks,
> Paul Manning
> Lake Oswego, OR
> 1972 Westy (Hapy) 
