From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>, <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 15 Feb 2005 19:03:40 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Timesert or helicoil

I agree with Mark,,
if the engine is in place, breaking that tang can be a bear...especially taking
out of the cylinder
http://www.emhart.com/products/helicoil/heli1.gif

my personal testimonial.... I don't like anything but heli coil
I have 100% success with well over 100 applications, in many different head
types
I have seen many reman shops use heli coil
Racers install helicoil before they need them.
I found a website that pretty well describes the helicoil....
My "secret" is to ensure that last trailing edge of the coil goes into the hole
,, below the surface enough so the plug will not tighten against the coil.. but
against the original head material.... this ensures the plug does not gall to
the coil and remove it when the plug is changed
read on....

From: <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>

> Hello Guys  this depends on if motor is in the bus or not   If you can get in
> to it I use a heil coil,   seeing that you have to be able to remove the tang
> at the bottom of the heil coil,  on bugs there isnt enough room to do a heil
> coil    Timeserts or the KD inserts will work but are bigger than heil coils
> so you would have one less chance to repair the head   later and have fun
mark
> dearing


Bill Lindner, wlindner(-at-)acltd.com

http://www.airheads.org/index.php?Technical%20Tips+Heli%20Coil%20Primer
DISCLAIMER: About a week ago I responded to a thread on the Airheads list
dealing with the repair of a stud that had stripped out the thread. Someone
mentioned that the information should be made available to others and asked if I
would write up some of the do's and don'ts of installing Heli Coil. inserts. I
guess I do have a vested interest in that I sell Heli Coil. products in the
Upper Mid-Western States but my purpose in writing up these comments is purely
educational. Please contact your local sources for these products; I am
available for questions. Please note that Heli Coil. is a registered trademark
of the Emhart Corporation.

BACKGROUND: Heli Coil. inserts are made from 18-8 stainless wire, have a diamond
cross section with a hardness of Rc 43-50, an ultimate tensile strength of from
200kpsi to 250kpsi and a surface finish of between 8 and 16 microinches. The
final product is larger in diameter than the tapped hole. During installation
the insertion tool applies torque to the insert reducing the diameter of the
leading coil allowing it to enter the tapped hole. After installation the insert
expands outwards with a spring force that permanently anchors the insert in
place. The product was invented in the late 1930's to provide a solution for the
repair of aircraft engines, especially the threads to attach spark plugs and
'jugs'. The stainless steel insert has a temperature range of from -320F to
+800F.

SIZES, TYPES & MATERIALS: There are two designs; the STANDARD which has a
free-running thread and the SCREW-LOCK which provides a locking torque on the
mating fastener using "chords" on one or more coils of the insert. Available
sizes are from #2 to 1 = inches in both UNC and UNF threads (each size has 5
different lengths available) and metric M2.2 to M39 in both coarse and fine
threads (5 different lengths). Inserts are normally made from 18-8 stainless but
other materials are available on special order. Lengths of inserts are referred
to in diameters. A <-20 insert that is 0.250 long is a 1-diameter insert. (NOTE:
Free state measurements of an insert are not valid due to the 'spring' nature of
the parts.)

WHY USE HELI COIL. INSERTS: The most common use of HC. inserts in older
machinery is to repair threads. Properly installed, a HC. insert will bring the
hole back to its original thread size, i.e. if the threads on a M12x1.75 tapped
hole are stripped, they will remain an M12x1.75 tapped hole after the
installation of the insert. There is an added benefit in that the use of the
insert yields a much stronger assembly than did the tapped hole in the parent
material. For example, if the shear strength of the parent material is 10kpsi,
the use of a 2 diameter insert would allow the use of a 54kpsi bolt with
assurance that the bolt would shear before the threads would strip out. More
details are available in Heli Coil. Technical Bulletin 68-2. Another way of
looking at it is that if the Heli Coil. insert were part of the original design,
you probably would not have to repair that stripped thread. The reason for this
is that in a conventionally tapped hole, the first three threads carry 90% of
the load of the assembly. With the Heli Coil. insert, the load does not change
but due to the geometry and forces in the insert, the load is spread over all of
the coils of the insert. Thus, if you had a load of 100 ft-lbs., a standard
tapped hole would see about 30 ft-lbs. on the first three threads while each of
the threads of a 10 coil Heli Coil. insert would only see 10 ft-lbs.

HOW TO INSTALL Heli Coil. INSERTS: The following comments are intended for
installation into steel and aluminum. The installation of the inserts is a
four-step process. First you have to drill out the old thread, then TAP the hole
using an STI (screw thread insert) tap, install the insert with the appropriate
installation tool until it is approximately = to > of a pitch below the surface
and finally break off the driving tang. If you purchase a Heli Coil. kit from
either an automotive parts store or an industrial distributor, it will contain
all of the tools that are needed. The tapping process is not complex since the
tap wants to follow the predrilled hole and is removing relatively little
material - just keep it parallel to the center line of the drilled hole. You
will require only minimal forced to achieve the desired results. NOTE: The taps
used, regardless of the style of tap, MUST be marked with the STI identification
because this tap is cutting a hole that is larger to accommodate the extra
thickness of the insert. DO NOT use roll form or forming taps. Use of this type
of tap to prep a hole for a Heli Coil. installation will cause problems
virtually all of the time especially when using fine threads. A Heli Coil. Brand
 tap will carry a marking consisting of a part number, size, fit and the STI
notation. Breaking off the driving tang can be accomplished in a number of ways.
In the smaller threads, the easiest way is to obtain a piece of drill rod
slightly smaller that the ID of the insert, insert it until it comes in contact
with the tang and then tap it with a hammer. The tang will break off. In larger
inserts, it may be easier to grasp the tang with pliers or gripping tool and
then work the tang up and down until it breaks off. GAUGING OF FINISHED HOLES:
The mil spec that governs the installing of wire inserts states that gauging of
the tapped hole prior to installing the insert defines whether or not the hole
is properly prepared. Attempting to gauge a hole after the insert is installed
renders useless data and can cause problems since the insert is not seated until
the installation of the mating fastener and if the fastener is removed, the
insert will attempt to return to its original state.

HOW TO REMOVE WIRE INSERTS: Assuming that the installation was 'by the book'
there are a couple of ways to remove inserts after the tang is broken off. If
the tang is still in place and you do not have a blind hole, just drive the
insert out of the hole using the installation tool. For those 'real world'
situations, you have two choices. The first is with a tool available from Heli
Coil. that essentially is a triangular shaped metal form on a stick which is
attached to the base of the triangle. The two sides are sharp and you tap the
handle after inserting the point into the center of the hole containing the wire
insert. Then simultaneously push down on the handle and turn the tool
counterclockwise. As soon as you can see some of the insert, stop the rotation
and grasp the wire with pair of pliers. Then UNTHREAD the insert by continuing
the left-hand rotation until it comes out of the hole. This will SAVE the
original thread and avoid further damage. IF you just pull the insert out you
will damage the threads since the insert is harder than the parent material. IF
a tool is not available and the working space allows, use a pick of some type
(dental etc) and pull the first thread of the wire insert out of the tapped
thread towards the center of the hole just far enough to grab the loose end with
a pliers of some type. THEN unthread the insert by turning left until it comes
out.

USE OF STUFF THAT COMES IN TUBES: Do not use anything except possibly a very
small dot of graphite lube on the mating bolt to prevent galling, especially if
the bolt is made of stainless material and you are using a SCREW-LOCK insert.
Use of Lok-Tite. and other similar products do not work in this type of
application and cause the insert to generate less clamping strength if the
material becomes trapped between the OD of the insert and the tapped hole. It
also causes the removal of the insert to change from just a PITA to a large
PITA.

TYPES OF KITS: There are two styles of kit available. One is referred to as an
automotive kit and is distributed through stores that cater to automotive parts.
The other style is a MRO kit (maintenance, repair and overhaul) that is
distributed through Industrial Distributors who deal with machine shops,
manufacturing companies, etc. While the inserts in both of the kits are the
same, the tools in the automotive kits are intended for basically a one time
use; the MRO kits have substantially better tools and have more lengths of
inserts - generally a 1, 1 = and 2 diameter length, and come in a reusable
plastic case. As you would expect, the automotive kits are less expensive. MRO
kits are also available that contain a predetermined selection of sizes of
inserts along with the supporting tap, installation tool, tang removal tool and
inserts all contained in a nice molded plastic package. OVERSIZE AND TWIN-SERT
KITS: These kits were designed to provide a solution for 'bigger' thread
problems, ones that cannot be corrected using the normal STI kit. The OVERSIZE
inserts are made of larger diameter wire for a given thread size, the TWIN-SERTS
are actually two specially made inserts, one of which is installed into a
prepared hole and the second is installed into the first insert yielding a much
larger correction. These are normally used in industry in industrial salvage of
parts that have been incorrectly manufactured. The maximum correction varies by
thread size. They are not cheap. If you think you need one of these kits,
contact your Heli Coil. distributor or the Factory first. Kit pricing varies
depending on the size of the insert. MRO kits run from about US $30.00 to over
US $150.00 for the kits with a variety of sizes. Automotive kits will run less
and do not offer kits with multiple sizes to the best of my knowledge
