From: jbrush(-at-)aros.net
Date: Wed, 16 Feb 2005 13:43:18 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] altitude -advancing vs low octane gas found at high

>> 2. I noticed that the octane of gas at altitude is lower- can the
>> chmists here explain this- and if one advances their timing,  should a
>> higher octane gas be used.

>You should advance the timing only if you filled up at sea level and went
>into the mountains. If you are living at that level then do your tuneup
>with the local gasoline.

I am not a  chemist, just a resident of the Rockies, so this is opinion,
probably with a smattering of facts :-)

The gas company can make lower octane gas cheaper. In higher altitudes,
you can run lower octane ratings due to the lack of oxygen. Gas at high
altitudes costs the same as gas at low altitudes. Therefore, it only
exists to make a profit for the gas companies. 

The amount of "power," or "explosive force" or whatever the technical term
is, in a gallon of gas is the same, regardless of the octane. As was said,
the only  difference is the point of combustion, which varies based on
compression ratios. The point at which the gas combusts does not vary at
all with timing, so altering the timing just to run at high altitude is
not going to make any difference between octane ratings. 

If you disagree, then run the highest octane gas you can find, for an
extra 20 cents/gal and you will find that performance is still diminished,
and you have less money for beer. <g> All the other tweaks may help when
higher up for other reasons, but the octane rating is irrelevant to
getting up over that mountain pass.

If everything else is okay with the motor, you just use the lower octane
in high elevations, and performance will go down, just as it does with
every vehicle that tries to suck in air at 10,000 feet. Just ask the Drag
Racers who cannot get equal performance at the high altitudes, compared to
sea level, even with superchargers. Tweaking might do some good, but all
things being equal, expect your vehicle to lose power at high altitudes.
Probably a bigger issue when normal power is not all that great to begin
with :-)

I don't know for sure about every vehicle, but the owners manuals for my
cars don't recommend timing changes based on altitude. 

The octane thing does throw people, but octane is not a performance
enhancer, or we would all be searching for so good old Sunoco 260 to put
into our vans :-)

Just IMO,

John
