Date: Tue, 01 Nov 2011 18:44:35 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Panel adhesive

On 10/31/2011 10:30 PM, courtney hook wrote:
> using the adhesive that Ben uses sometimes. Would appreciate any input on this thought.
I've used it. Worked like a charm!

I bought it from our local mom n' pop automotive paint supplier. It uses 
a special caulking gun that handles two tubes of adhesive with a clever 
tip that mixes the too parts.

I cleaned up both edges, cut out all the rust, made sure my patch had a 
quarter inch overlap minimum. Cleaned the parts of paint, rust, and oils.

Squeezed out the adhesive on the car with the caulking gun, attached the 
patch panel, clamped it tight enough to make good contact all the way 
around without squeezing out all the adhesive.

I let it setup, sanded back any adhesive that squeezed out with a 
grinder/sander - a little angle sander with 2" sanding discs works 
wonders. You can do it by hand too. Cleaned it all up and brushed 
painted on a layer of random Rustoleum which I already had on hand.

The patch in question were two small rust holes in the floor of my 
Cabrio where two drain plugs rusted out. (Salt?) water had collected 
around the rubber body plugs and rotted the metal. The car was missing 
about 1/8" of steel in a circle around the plugs. I just patched the 
holes completely.

It's been a daily driver and out in the weather for several years now 
and no rust has come back. Patches remain attached solidly which REALLY 
impressed me. I had about 50%/50% expectations that it would last 
without the patches coming loose.

Make sure you have enough adhesive in there to keep water from getting 
between the panels. If in doubt I'd consider putting some body sealant 
in there. Remember that non-top-coated Bondo is not waterproof. Moisture 
can wick through apparently. I'd use an aluminium impregnated epoxy 
filler instead if that is a concern.

Hope this is helpful,

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'97 VW Cabrio 2.0L
'99 CR-V EX AWD (224K miles!)
Brenderup 1205S
