Date: Wed, 9 Nov 2011 11:51:35 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Jim and Avalon <Wildthings(-at-)gorge.net>
Subject: Brushable was Re:Paint translation

Hi Jim,
       Lots of info and knowledge about 'non-spray' painting methods out
there.  Plenty in the archives.  Many boats are painted with a "roll and tip"
technique.  For sure, the paint has to be appropriately thinned to suit each
technique, and some paints are more suitable for each method than others.  The
most common boat paints are one part, or two part, polyurethanes.  Super
durable, and forgiving of application environment - provided the prep work is
done right.  How many times have you heard that.  Remember, there are few
paint booths big enough for most boats.  Most are done outside, at whatever
current ambient conditions exist.  Sometimes a tent is erected to provide a
warmer, less windy, airspace.
             Use a low knap (1/8") foam roller, available at quality paint
stores, to apply the paint, then immediately 'tip' the paint with a quality
bristle or foam brush.  This removes the bubbles and flattens any micro
surface-structures.  Work towards the wet edge.  Clean (wipe it) the brush
frequently, or throw away the foam one and start fresh, so there is no build
up on the brush tip.  On a boat, this process is often done as a team.  One
person rolls, the second follows (very) closely, tipping the wet paint.  Goes
fast and does a great job. Obviously - no over-spray. Still need PPE.  Works
just fine on type-2's.  Way better than 20x20, at least 10x30, perhaps even
5x40... ;)   jon

ps. The reason I recommend using your OV respirator while
sanding/blasting/cleaning/painting is that they fit, and seal, much better
than any but the most expensive dust filters.  If a filter doesn't seal, it is
worthless.  Second, these days, they are available in every hardware
store/FLAPS/big box outlet for cheap.  Good quality dust filters that seal,
and stay sealed, are a specialty item, and cost more than an organic vapor
respirator. Also, they are not available everywhere. http://www.airace.com/ 
These, while they work great, cost 4x (~$85) what I can buy a 3m OV blister
pack (~$18) at the big box/online.  The ten-pack paper, or treated fluff, dust
masks are worthless, IMHO, because they don't seal, and stay sealed. YMMV.
jon

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)
