Date: Fri, 22 Feb 2002 19:02:46 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Body restoration Tech and Tips

>From: "Kelly" <Metwiz2(-at-)triad.rr.com>
>Date: Tue, 19 Feb 2002 18:46:09 -0500
>
>>That 3-M has a body panel adhesive that is as strong, if not stronger
>>than a weld, and the compound displaces moisture in the area that has
>>been repaired?
>
>Sheezz  i'm expecting  a its only $19.95!!!!!!

But if you call in the next ten minutes, we'll double your order FREE!
The first 100 callers ALSO receive this handy muffler-bearing puller!

>I have found nothing that damn easy, A large company we used to work
>for has tried all types of adhesives to hold the skins on thier cargo
>vans instead of brad rivets, guess what their using rivets again, and
>yes 3m was in on thier project and it failed miserably.

I have got to agree with Kelly on this one.  This sounds like another
one of those things that "saves money" by lowering the initial cost
and raising the cost later on -- how much later depends on how long
the warranty is.  I've been bitten by one of those before.

In the USA in the late 1980s, the regulations on the amount of
solvents allowable in paint got stricter.  The paint suppliers
reformulated their product to comply with the new regulations.
A few of them went even farther and claimed that their new paint
was so good, you could _skip_ a few of the primer steps that were
previously required.

General Motors believed them, and in mid-1989 in Ohio they painted 
the C(-at-)rsica I used to have with this wonderful new paint.  They
put it on a train and shipped it to Kansas City.  It ran around
eastern Kansas for about four years before I got it.  I kept it
in a garage about half of the time.  Over the next 8 years, all
of the paint on the roof and most of the paint on the hood and
trunk _fell off_ - first in tiny flakes, then in huge sheets.
GM didn't care.  They had already saved their money.

Bus content: In Hanover, Germany, in November 1963, VW painted a 
Standard Micro turquoise and blue-white.  Then they put it on a
boat and shipped it to San Fransico.  It ran around in California
for 25+ years, and then came to Tulsa.  Once it was here, it sat
outside for 10 more years until I got it.  Every piece of the body
on my Bus still had some original paint on it.

I wonder how much testing has been done on the glued body panels.
I'd like to take one of the new trucks with the glued beds through
a couple of Alaska winters or a couple of Death Valley summers and
see how the glue holds up.  Better yet, try it out in a Norwegian
winter, and on a couple of trips down the roads the ZebraSafari
has travelled - like the one that is so rough you have to check
every bolt on your car once an hour for looseness.  I have a
feeling I would discover a "no tools" method to turn a standard
pickup into a "cab and chassis" model very quickly.

Matt Roberds


