From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2003 09:19:31 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] changeing oils in the crankcase?

Muir's advice on oil is a pretty dated. A single weight oil has some
advantages, but it is recommended to use only in a fairly narrow ambient
temperature range. Our owners manuals (late bays) allow both 30W and 20W50,
but 20W50 covers a wider temp range. I would think 30W might be good only in
a place like Hawaii, where the ambient temps are really pretty stable. There
are some folks who will change oil weights on demand prior to long trips or
in response to unseasonable weather. This allows them the advantages of
single weight oil without getting outside the temp limits for a given
weight. If you don't have the owners manual I can email you the oil data
from my '77.

You can mix various weight oils of the same brand without any problem, but
avoid mixing different brands. If you switch brands, just change the filter
at the same time, that will get out most of the old oil out, and what's left
won't be significant. Use detergent oil. Unless you've been going way out of
your way to find non-detergent oil, most modern available oils are detergent
type.

BTW, I've been using Castrol for years on all my vehicles, but apparently
there was a recent problem with Castrol destroying the cam lobes in T4
engines. This was suspected (not proven) by a reputable engine shop. Better
safe than sorry, I switched brands on my new rebuild...the archives are full
of stuff on oil.


RickG
'77 Westy "Pumpkin II"

<SNIP>
I have a quick question for someone...
i was reading in john muirs book and he says that what he liked to use was
SAE 30 castrol....
so how would a person go about cleaning whatever oil they had in the crank
case out to use SAE 30 castrol.
i knew know better and there fore ran castrol 20 w 50 in there like i do my
old buick.
well we live and learn but just didnt know any betyter at the time..
is there a sure way for me to change to SAE 30 castrol and it not affect the
engine.
didnt know if the castrol 20 w 50 might be caked up in the oil cooler or
not?
or anywhere else for that matter.???
thanks for all the help.
muir speaks of cleaning the old oil out but i did not see whare he says how
to clean it out..
this is when he is talking about detergents and things i the oil ....
thanks
