From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2003 10:46:32 -0400
Subject: [T2] RE: ECU faulty?

What you're doing is not actually testing the ECU, but ruling out all other
problems. If you check all those pins (and the previous stuff) and they all
light up, then the problem has to be the ECU. If all the connections don't
work, then it's a wiring problem. Don't rush out and buy an ECU yet; we are
back to a faulty ground here...

The Bentley drawing of the pin layout is confusing; it's a mirror image.
Hold the ECU connector with the wire bundle on your right, looking down
_into_ the connectors. Pin #1 is the one closest to you on your right (it
sticks out more to the right). Pin # 18 is on the far left, sticking out on
the left. The other row is 19-35.  When counting, count empty holes as well
as the ones with metal contacts in them.

Assuming you measured the right pins:

Pins 5, 16, & 17 are grounds. 10 is a power supply.  No light across 10 & 5
means that one of the FI harness grounds is not connected or broken.

I know you checked the FI harness ground on top of the case, but check for
continuity between pin 5 and the battery ground. I'll bet it's open (no
continuity).

Pin 5 should have it's own female connector on the top of the case (16 & 17
should share one). So there should be two female connectors hooked to the
male ground connector on top of the case, right? One with two wires (pins
16&17) and one with one wire (pin 5).

Now remove the pin 5 ground connector from the case and see if you can get
continuity between pin 5 and that female connector.

Yes? Try cleaning the ground connectors again and hook it back up and try
again.

No? The wire's broken between the ECU connector and the end of the wire. You
might try cutting off the old female blade connector and installing a new
one. If that doesn't work, then you need to think about maybe a used FI
harness, unless someone knows how to repair those easily.

Let us know...


RickG


<SNIP>
 am not sure I am connecting to the correct terminals(I couldn't find it in
the manual either), but I counted from the bottom as 1 and went up. When I
hit 2-4 the light comes on and the fuel pump runs at one of them. At 5 NO
LIGHT. Up around 16 and 17 I get a little confussed at which to count since
they are side by side, but 16,17,18? all light up(the last few in the row).
Anyway, I assume 5 is suppose to light up and since it doesn't I'm to
conclude the ECU is bad???
Does it sound like I have tested this correctly?
