From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>, "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2003 16:47:55 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] changing oils in the crankcase?

I agree with you, it's very circumstantial; but work's a little slow right
now and I can't afford to find out for sure the hard way.

Rick

-----Original Message-----
From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net [mailto:CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net]
Sent: Sunday, June 01, 2003 06:30 PM
To: trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com
Cc: TYPE2. COM (E-mail)
Subject: RE: [T2] changing oils in the crankcase?



Rick and All--

The only problem I have with this Castrol hoax is--If a guy performed
his periodic maintenance at a regular regimented time, ( 2500 to 3000
miles ) I doubt that any reputable oil such as Castrol--or for that
matter any of the top ten oils would be wiping out cam lobes on any
engine.

I really find this awfully hard to swallow--
And I really don't think it happened--just from using Castrol--

I believe that there would be some sort of litigation--or something, if
in fact an off the wall problem like this occured.

How about all the air cooled scooter's that use Castrol-- 20 / 50 ??

The stuff would have been off the shelf--pronto--


Later,

Terry


E-mail message

From: trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com (TR Gesell) Date: Sun, Jun 1, 2003,
9:19am (CDT+1) To: type2(-at-)type2.com (TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)) Subject: RE:
[T2] changeing oils in the crankcase?
Muir's advice on oil is a pretty dated. A single weight oil has some
advantages, but it is recommended to use only in a fairly narrow ambient
temperature range. Our owners manuals (late bays) allow both 30W and
20W50, but 20W50 covers a wider temp range. I would think 30W might be
good only in a place like Hawaii, where the ambient temps are really
pretty stable. There are some folks who will change oil weights on
demand prior to long trips or in response to unseasonable weather. This
allows them the advantages of single weight oil without getting outside
the temp limits for a given weight. If you don't have the owners manual
I can email you the oil data from my '77.
You can mix various weight oils of the same brand without any problem,
but avoid mixing different brands. If you switch brands, just change the
filter at the same time, that will get out most of the old oil out, and
what's left won't be significant. Use detergent oil. Unless you've been
going way out of your way to find non-detergent oil, most modern
available oils are detergent type.
BTW, I've been using Castrol for years on all my vehicles, but
apparently there was a recent problem with Castrol destroying the cam
lobes in T4 engines. This was suspected (not proven) by a reputable
engine shop. Better safe than sorry, I switched brands on my new
rebuild...the archives are full of stuff on oil.
RickG
'77 Westy "Pumpkin II"
<SNIP>
I have a quick question for someone...
i was reading in john muirs book and he says that what he liked to use
was SAE 30 castrol....
so how would a person go about cleaning whatever oil they had in the
crank case out to use SAE 30 castrol.
i knew know better and there fore ran castrol 20 w 50 in there like i do
my old buick.
well we live and learn but just didnt know any betyter at the time.. is
there a sure way for me to change to SAE 30 castrol and it not affect
the engine.
didnt know if the castrol 20 w 50 might be caked up in the oil cooler or
not?
or anywhere else for that matter.???
thanks for all the help.
muir speaks of cleaning the old oil out but i did not see whare he says
how to clean it out..
this is when he is talking about detergents and things i the oil ....
thanks
