From: "TR Gesell" <trgesell(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2003 17:39:58 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] New data on my questionable ECU

It actually sounds like the ECU is providing a ground long enough to fire
the injectors. I doubt you could judge the correct functioning of the system
by the quantity of fuel emitted using the external distributor trick.

You can check the ECU grounds pretty easily (see the other recent ECU posts
if you haven't already). Also refer to the T/S procedure in the type2
archives.

RickG
'77 Westy "Pumpkin II"

<SNIP>
My vehicle has been in the garage for two months while I troubleshoot the FI
system. Today, I've made two small discoveries and I'd appreciate comments
from the list gurus.

I'm "fortunate" in that my fuel pump runs when the key is in the ON position
because the PO modified the wiring at my double relay to bypass CR1 because
it does not close.

Factoid 1. I made all the normal connections, and pulled the injectors from
the case so I could view the spray. I pulled up the piece of rubber that
shields the two white wires leading to the plug on injector #1. I connected
a sharp probe to a wire from chassis ground and jammed it through the
insulation on the wire that should ground the injector. As long as I
maintained this ground, the four injectors sprayed in a fine cone pattern.
To me, this says that if properly grounded my injectors will fire.
Conversely, this implies that my ECU is not grounding the injectors.

Factoid 2: Taking a lead from one of the many T2 posts, I grabbed a spare
distributor and connected it, in parallel with my existing distributor, to
terminal 1 on my coil and to ground. This offered a simple way to send a
pulse to the ECU without the bother of running the starter. When I turned
the dizzy shaft by hand to open and close the points, the injectors gave a
very brief and temporary blip of fuel. Nothing like the continuous cone
spray pattern.

Is this convincing proof that the ECU is not supplying a ground to the
injectors?
