Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2003 21:56:52 -0400 (EDT)
From: <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Engine runs rough ??

I thought I'd pass on some thoughts
</RANT> LOL

Lately, I have seen, and talked to many folks that are going out of their
minds trying to get a "Tune up" to work miracles.

None of them want to do a Compression Test, leak down test, or vacuum gauge

All 3 of the test above are very easy to do,, and I am trying to encourage
people to find out if there is some internal damage BEFORE doing a tune
up.

Check with a compression gauge
Check with leak down test
Check with a Vac gauge,

I have seen folks change starters, batteries, alternators, vacuum lines,
distributors, ignition switches, fuel pumps,carbs, and then in
frustration, they call and ask me for assistance.
First thing I ask,,, what is the compression results,,
<sigh>
They don't have a compression gauge.
I stop by with a compression gauge,, and my leak down tester.. and prove
to them that they have a dropped valve seat and the engine has to come
apart.

I know from experience,, a T4 engine will run 5000 miles with a dropped
valve seat,,
I also have an engine that was still running, the guy wanted a tune up,,,
for about 8000 miles,,, from Vancouver to Ont at the very least, and it
has 3 spun rod bearings and 1 dropped valve seat in each head!
Another engine ran 1/2 way to everybus, then all the 700 miles home with a
dropped valve seat,
and on and on and on,,,

Everyone could not believe that a valve seat could be the trouble

Some had the valve spring in their hand,,,

I should make a web page with all the incidents that could have been save
had someone done a compression test, leak down, or connected a vac gauge.

Moral:
If your engine is running rough,, change the points, check the valve
clearance ... then do a compression test, leak down test , and/or install
a vac gauge.

if one cylinder is low compression,, what ever the problem is,, it has to
come apart
If one cylinder has high leakage,, then it has to come apart
If the vac gauge is low or irratic,, then it has to come apart

sorry ,, bad news is always bad,,
I hope you prove me wrong, and find out it is only a bad condensor

Jamie Rivers
Ont Canada
