From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 2 Jun 2003 08:47:41 -0400 
Subject: Questions.. Comments...

Ok, just a few questions.. and some comments.. I wanted to make sure I've
got everything ready before I start driving this bad-boy on a regular basis.

Just last week, I got 1973 Bus registered, tagged, and got insurance. So
legally, I'm ready to go. I took the Bus for a test-spin to the gas station.
I noticed the following....

On the way over there, the Bus seemed to have a lot more horsepower than it
did a couple of weeks ago. I don't know what I did... 
I did replace all the fuel lines with steel lines, and used all new rubber
when connecting the fuel line tube to the carburetor. Not sure how this
would really improve horsepower but it did. 

Ok, so on the way over there, the Bus drove pretty nice. I filled up with 89
octane. On the way BACK however, the Bus started running a little hard and
it smoked a little bit... it back fired a little bit as well. I also noticed
that the fuel turned from yellow (what was in the car before) to now almost
completely clear with no color (Amacco). 

When I got back to the house, I adjusted the distributor a little and
noticed that it was a little loose. I'm guessing maybe it had turned a
little and that's why the car started to run poorly. However. I adjusted it
back, and while I have the power back again.. it runs a LITTLE shakey at
times.. not ALL the time, but sometimes.

The next thing is... I had my girlfriend, and my friend, and her dog in the
back for our "debut cruise" (to the gas station). By the time we got back,
they were nearly passed out from the exhaust and gas fumes pouring into the
cabin. How can I take care of that. It doesn't sound like I have any exhaust
leaks? Which brings me to my next question... the Bus I have has some sort
of dual exhaust muffler system.. it looks like something that probably was
supposed to go on a Porsche 914 or something. I'd rather go with something
stock. Does anyone know where I can get a good aftermarket, or original
style exhaust system that's more or less factory looking? This one has dual
crome tips.

And LAST question... when setting the timing.. what the heck do I look at,
and to what degree of advance do I need to set the timing?


Thanks!!! 

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
