Date: Mon, 2 Jun 2003 08:50:22 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Questions.. Comments...

On Mon, Jun 02, 2003 at 08:47:41AM -0400, tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com wrote:
> Just last week, I got 1973 Bus registered, tagged, and got insurance. So
> legally, I'm ready to go. I took the Bus for a test-spin to the gas station.

well, congrats!

> Ok, so on the way over there, the Bus drove pretty nice. I filled up with 89
> octane. On the way BACK however, the Bus started running a little hard and
> it smoked a little bit... it back fired a little bit as well. I also noticed
> that the fuel turned from yellow (what was in the car before) to now almost
> completely clear with no color (Amacco). 

I wonder if your problems came to light with the engine getting much
hotter? When you got home how hot was the engine? Could you hold the
dipstick?
 
> When I got back to the house, I adjusted the distributor a little and
> noticed that it was a little loose. I'm guessing maybe it had turned a
> little and that's why the car started to run poorly. However. I adjusted it
> back, and while I have the power back again.. it runs a LITTLE shakey at
> times.. not ALL the time, but sometimes.

How far was the maiden voyage? I'd go ahead & double check the timing,
but check the dwell as well (hehe that rhymes) to make sure the points
aren't changing. That would effect your timing as well, & bad dwell
will cause somewhat poor running conditions.
 
> The next thing is... I had my girlfriend, and my friend, and her dog in the
> back for our "debut cruise" (to the gas station). By the time we got back,
> they were nearly passed out from the exhaust and gas fumes pouring into the
> cabin. How can I take care of that. It doesn't sound like I have any exhaust
> leaks? Which brings me to my next question... the Bus I have has some sort
> of dual exhaust muffler system.. it looks like something that probably was
> supposed to go on a Porsche 914 or something. I'd rather go with something
> stock. Does anyone know where I can get a good aftermarket, or original
> style exhaust system that's more or less factory looking? This one has dual
> crome tips.

Yes get the correct bus muffler. It will save you a big headache in
the long run. The bus muffler spits the exhaust out to the side
outside of the little "pocket" of dead air that follows the bus
because of the brick-like design. Also do check all the rear seals.
Having bad rear hatch seals will cause this to happen as well as
possibly the access hatch seal if the engine seal isn't up to par.
Also do check the foam seal around the engine. not only does it help
the engine run cooler it helps keep crap out of the engine air. So you
may not have an exhaust leak, but if the exhaust spits out in the
space behind the bus the exhaust can easily make it's way inside. Get
this fixed pronto. you don't wanna fall asleep driving that baby &
have something you can't repair happen to you or your passengers.
 
> And LAST question... when setting the timing.. what the heck do I look at,
> and to what degree of advance do I need to set the timing?

Depends. What distributor do you have? But the pancake engines have a
TDC mark on the crank which is hard to see sometimes. Paint it w/
whiteout & that will help some. Just in case you don't have one, there
is supposed to be a curved piece w/ degree marks that mounts just
outside the crank & is connected to the bolts that hold the debre
guard on. 

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"?
