From: "Kevin Chambers" <kevinc(-at-)contactlimelight.com>
To: <kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 2 Jun 2003 17:43:46 +0100
Subject: Re: weekend bus update

You may have this covered already but make sure that the lip around the base
of the gear stick (the bit a little above the ball) is within the the two
upright sections of the shift plate.

You need to put the stick into 2nd and then get the stick at a 90 degree
angle to the floor with the two floor mounted bolts loose and then ensure
that the lip is within the shift plate in order to fit correctly. If your
lip wasn't within the tolerance of the shift plate that would be one
explanation as to why it keeps popping out.

You can buy a quick stick shift plate that sits above the original plate and
reduces the amount of travel on the stick which may be of some use.

It may be an obvious one but do you still have the pin that travels through
the ball and rests in the groove in the slot below the floor? If you
misplaced that pin and didn't realise when you put it back together then the
stick would leap out just about every time.

Failing that the next thing I would try would be the rear gear box coupling
which are easy to replace but are made of rubber so they do perish. This
won't stop your ball popping out but it will stop the gears being so loose
and travelling so far. They are not expensive and quite easy to fit.

If you do all of the above correctly and still have a problem I'm stumped!

Hope that was some use - I'm in a similar position myself and have just
ordered a quick shift plate and a new rear gear box coupling to hopefully
help stop various gearbox adventures and bring back my 2nd gear which has a
tendency to go awol!

Do let me know if you turn up any other possible causes and how you solve
the problem.

Thanks

Kevin Chambers
1700 1973 Devon Moonraker called Benny.
Nottingham UK

------------------------------

Date: Mon, 2 Jun 2003 08:43:50 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com

'i have replaced the bushing that is at the end of the shifter that looks
like a
little tube and the shifter ball still comes out of the socket it is
supposed to ride in if i use any more than super delicate pressure on it.
it wasn't like this when i bought it last year but after removing it once i
have never been able to get it back in correctly.'

------------------------------
