Date: Fri, 17 Nov 2006 17:29:23 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: RE: [T2]76 Brakes (update) HeLP~!~

Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:    I have mentioned this to you a few times now but you
have not referred to it at all: Are you getting full
RETURN of the stroke - meaning, do you have SLACK or
some space or a gap - however you want to say it -
when the pedal is at rest - up - not pushed down -
however you want to say it! You can't get fluid into
the chamber if the ports don't get uncovered on the
return stroke.
   
  i am not sure about the slack.... when the pedal is up and no foot on it,, it is up....where it usually is....?
   
  when you push the pedal you might as well be pushing down on foam or even softer.... theres nothing..... all the way to the floor....
  i am at a loss here.... i broke my resovoir trying to fit it to the master cylinder and now have a 71 resovoir on there .... the only one that i could find and came from a local friend....
   
  well being it is off a 71 bus the resovoir points diffrent way and if you put it like the 76 one goes it is slammed against brake booster.... sooooooooo i tured it around the other way and running it that aways it cant reach the hose whcih is made of a hard plastic,.,.,,,,
   
  i bought some 1/2 inch pvc braided tubing.... will that work to redo the plastic hose and make it loonger so i can hook up the new resovoir.... it is pretty hard pastic and clear and looks strong enough to hold up but what about the brake fluid against it....? will the brake fluid eat it up and if so what the heck is the plastic stuff made of it aint eating up cause i cant find any of that nowheres....?
   
  once i get this fixed then i am back to trying to bleed brakes again....
   
  errrggggggg and tonight the wifes beetle messed up on me.... dont know if the throw out bearing clips have broken or not... but the gears are sliding and slipping on it and clutch pedal got lots of slack in it all of a sudden while sitting in heavy traffic.... good god... about time to get another vehicle i cant take much more of this ..... 76 bay 68 beetle.......they both always die out on us at same time having no mercy....
   
  thanks for all the help my wife and i have been doing all we can throwing parts and money at everything  trying to take suggestions and advice but we arent getting no where....
   you know i bought air cooled vw's so we could work on ummm but our luck is turning out to be all bad lately every time we turn around....
   
  the heck with buying new parts to fix the problems ... the new parts arent lasting and keep tearing back up again and again....
   
  .. i am not messing with the regulator....though... on the bus...
  i called everywhere i could today and no one even sales the regulator and i cant find the resovoir anywheres either but bus depot and i aint waitng 2 weeks for them to fill my order...thats usually about how long it takes before they do anything it seems when i try to order with them and watch the transfer..... again eeerrrrggggg~!~
  

Now the "REGULATOR" - It's a device to lessen front
end dive and rear wheel skidding. You said you got
fluid out the rear bleeders before, so this is not a
problem. All it is, is an inertia valve. There is a
large heavy ball that sits on a perch normally but
when the brakes are applied hard, it rolls forward
partially blocking the port to the rear brake circuit.

If you do open it up, have some VERY THIN gasket
material ready to hand-cut and reassemble with. Your
last phase of cleaning should be with clean fluid to
flush away whatever solvents you used in initial
cleaning.

   
   
   
  yep have put new lines on there....hoses that is............ 
   
  you know everything was fine with the bus tottally until i changed my rear passenger cylinder and then all this hell has broke loose.... the master cylinder went out and i have really had such a hard time getting this all fixed....
   
  i just dont understand it.... i have bleed brakes a thousand times now with not nothing of this sort of pain coming at me...
   
  what to do what to do.... cant go camping this weekend and pretty upset about that but it happens i guess but have to have my bus back on the road this monday for work and now looks like i gotta do something to wifes bug again .... been through this before also....
   
  i just dont understand... i really dont....~!~ if i didnt have bad luck i dont guess i would'nt have any luck at all...
   
  thanks
   chai
  
I know several people have told you about flexible
lines - how the hoses decay on the inside and
sometimes develop a "flap" that acts like a valve -
when there is a movement of fluid, it causes the flap
to block the inside of the hose. I don't remember if
you replaced your hoses, but just thought I'd bring
that up.

Once again - is there slack in that pushrod up front?
There NEEDS TO BE! -BaH



'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01






                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
          






























 
---------------------------------
Sponsored Link

$420,000 Mortgage for $1,399/month -   Think You Pay Too Much For Your Mortgage? Find Out!
