Date: Fri, 17 Nov 2006 18:42:29 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Billy Price <billyprice3(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]76 Brakes (update) HeLP~!~

thank you and yes i have read that already guys but that does not mean i understand why this happened only because i changed my rear wheel cylinder knocking out my then master cylinder.....?
   
  yes yes and yes i have the bentley and before i ever post anything to the list or anywhere i do read it and most of the time i get it right everytime but those times are in silence cause they were done and i didnt have to pull a rabbit from a hat...and ask a question...
   
  i was told not to mess with that clearence on the pushrod along time ago so i havent touched it,...  
  i have tomorrow off though so wish me luck.. i will check to see what at least the clearence is on it and go from there before i pull this master cylinder...again...
   
  i never claimed to be a mechanic or even get it right the first time but i am after all just another bus driver .... 
   
  i just wanna get it fixed yall no lie i do.... my bus is my drug and tool.... without it on the road i need another fix LOL... 
   
  thanks for all the help...
   
  chai

Billy Price <billyprice3(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:
  Chai,

I rarely bust a move like this, but your story is so gripping and I
have so "been there" that I have pulled out the Bentley which it seems
you have not yet acquired, despite the struggles.

Page 5 of the brake section (appended):

"...it is very important that the correct clearance exist between the
pushrod and the master cylinder piston...."

1. Remove cover

2. Check to see that the pedal lever is being held against the brake
pedal stop by the brake pedal return spring

3. If the pedal is against the stop, check the clearance between the
connecting rod and the brake servo. The connecting rod should not
exert pressure on the servo valve housing when the pedal is all the
way up

4. If necessary, remove the cotter pin from the clevis pin, and
disconnect the connecting rod clevis from the pedal lever

5. Adjust the connecting rod by screwing it in or out of the threaded
part of the servo.

6. If necessary, loosen the locknut and make fine adjustments by
turing the connecting rod connection until the clevis pin can easily
be inserted as you install the connecting rod on the pedal lever

7. Install a new cotter pin on the clevis pin. Tighten the locknut
for the connection on the servo

Good luck,

Billy
M'boro, TN




                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
          






























 
---------------------------------
Sponsored Link

   Don't quit your job  - take classes online and earn your degree in 1 year. Start Today
