Date: Sun, 19 Nov 2006 13:55:59 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Airic <airic(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]76 Brakes (update) update update

well at last i have SOME brakes..... my fronts are really good now but the backs are still a little slow to come around....
  i been bleeding with the vaccum bleeder and all of a sudden I GOT PEDAL... the pedal stops now about half way througfh or before it hits the floor rather.... and STOPssssss ....
   
  before it was going all the way to the floor....touching the flloor....
   
  Airic,billy bushaulic,phil and others i took your advice and got somewheres thanks for the hlep...along with the libary at type 2 and the bentley ....
   
  looks like the gang will be up this way next weekend so maybe i can get someone to help me finish bleeding these back ones out right....
   
  they still being a little stubborn but at least i got some brakes so i can drive for this week....
   
  i will just have to take it easy;;;;; like i been doing anyways and always do....
   
  thanks you all...
   
  i know they still aint right but i am happy to have some brakes at least now... and a stiff pedal..even though it is a half stiff pedal and not a full stiff pedal..... i feel like if i can get the rest of the air out of the back ones then i will be alright... I HOPE~!~
   
  now to order some parts and get the wifes beetle fixed.....
   
  thats another story cant figure out why the throw out bearing clips keep getting eat up in there hanging up the trhwo out bearing on her beetle 68....??
   
  i had them put in by a mechanic last time they were done so i know they were done right and i was there watching....
   
  again thanks all..
  chai

Airic <airic(-at-)midsouth.rr.com> wrote:
  The reason I asked if you had a bently, because it is easier to point you to
a reference in there, as billy has kindly pasted for you below.

Before you mess with the rod if you decide to, which should not need to be
adjusted, measure it.

Did you "bench" bleed the new master cylinder before you installed it? could
take about 50+ pumps. Most can be bled installed with the fancy plugs that
come with them, or did you get one that had no instructions, or bleeding
hardware (rethink supply house), if no bleeding kit go choke whoever sold it
to you, and make them crap you one, or go to autozone and tell them your
situation and ask if they can sell you one with the right size plastic
plugs, or give you the bleeder kit, tip they guy $5 if he gives it to you
and insist he take it. Remeber to only buy stuff from him at that store, he
is your new buddy.

First step check the below procedure for the piston bottoming out, adjust if
needed way down there.

Second if not already done, bleed the new cylinder, or the old one I don;t
care which, that was not the problem, this procedure will give you a hard
pedal......that what you want right...

Third hook up hard lines, an ensure all bleeder valves are closed, and
resivoir is full. .

Forth Adjust brake shoes in the rear with the star adjusters as per bentley
8.1 page 23 stop at step 7 Your parking brake should work now. If it does
not work for the wheel you did the cylinder on, take it apart and verify you
hooked up the hardware correctly.

Fifth get in van, and slowly apply brakes to the floor, then let it up.do
that one more time, do you feel any, i mean any resistance/pressure?


Sixth get you wife or buddy, when she does not have anything to do for 1
hour, she can read a book, magazine or something. Get a clear glass, and
tube that fits the bleeder ports on the bleeder ports, refer to bently
chapter 8, 9.3 for cautions and such. Grab a 7mm and 8mm wrench.

Teach your assistant to apply the brakes, and hold them to the floor until
you say let the pedal up.
Ok this part will take awhile, and don't use a vacuum pump, the only tools
to be substituted is a pressure bleeder, and you don't have one, or you
would be done by now.

Have your assistant push the pedal down, and hold it, and push it to the
floor and hold it there(they will notice), until you say to let the pedal
up. Go to the rh rear wheel, loosen the bleeder port, but don't unscrew it
much. hook up your hose, loosen it again, and if something came out we are
on track, if not don't fret it will come. Now tighten the bleeder back up,
snug, but not torqued. Have your assistant let the pedal up, wait 20
seconds, and then have them push it down slowly again. loosen the bleeder
again, and let some air or fluid out, tighten, and Repeat above 6 times, and
refill resivoir.

Now move to the left rear wheel, do the above procedure on it 6 times too.
refill and move to the front rh caliper. this one is tricky, use the top
port (if equipted) to bleed, and 6 times again, refill. move to LH fwd,
repeat 6 times. You get the point right.

Ok now you should have some pressure, and have used a quart or so of fluid ,
if not ensure you did the first and second step.

Now you''ll love this. If you do not have sufficient pressure at the pedal
make sure steps one and two are done, and repeat the bleeding in the same
sequence as before, no short cuts!!!!

Next
Check brake light operation, top off fluid, and email the list telling them
it is fixed, and you now have learned the patience it takes to bleed brakes,
no fast pumping, that isn't even for emergencies......, uless you are an
anti skid computer.




                                                          1976 bay Grace
  1968 beetle Glory






























 
---------------------------------
Sponsored Link

Mortgage rates near 39yr lows. $510,000 Mortgage for $1,698/mo -   Calculate new house payment
