Date: Wed, 22 Nov 2006 05:11:06 -0800 (PST)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] AC/DC - was RE: [T2] Ham Radio and Bus Pilots

I'll try this again.  Last time I hit the wrong key and rebooted.

You're way ahead of me on this one.  I plan on putting my 706 in when I find time.  I need to order a new cable that goes to the detachable face plate.  When I totalled my SHO (or when an 18 yr old rear-ended me) I didn't get that out.  Before I knew it the ins. co. had it towed to Birmingham.  I got a nice distribution block here locally and a nice 8 guage 1-4 splitter from partexpress.com.  Love that place.  I've got the dual battery relay but no battery yet.  I need to run the ham rig, a stereo, two amps, and probably a TV/DVD.  And I need to fix my frig or toss it.  I thought about mounting everything under the bench seat and I found a subwoofer that's the same size as the center stool only a little shorter.  I'm going to make a seat for it and build it up to the correct height which will leave room for a switching device so I can run the audio from the 706 through the stereo.  And it will hold my minidisc player.  I use that instead of MP3's because the quality is much
 better and I have a lot of live recordings I've made.  

Karl did a nice page on fixing the frig.  But I'm going to have to drill out the bolts that hold the box in as they are so worn that a screwdriver is useless.  I'm not sure if it's even worth it.  I thought about pulling it and using the hole to mount the electronics.  As far as the transformer/rectifier, you may be onto something.  Keep me informed.  I don't know if my charger works.  I do have AC under the bench.  But the charger doesn't seem to work at all.  

I've got a nice set of Blaupunkt speakers.  2 - 5 1/4's for the doors and a pair of 6x9's I'm going to mount on the ceiling in the rear.  Somebody here sent some great pics of some slide-on type that he could also mount on the outside of the bus.  If that person reads this, please send them again.  My speakers are marine-rated.  

Let me know how your install goes.  Cheers....KR

Joseph Ames Jr <joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net> wrote: What are you going to do for the distribution block?  I've got some of
the Anderson Powerpole facias that I'd like to install near to the
battery charger plate (for accessories) but have run heavy cables from
the aux bat to the refrigerator's condensor box to power the rig and an
audio amp for the rear speakers.  My real project though is to integrate
"shore power" and a nice inverter to the 12VDC.  I'm wondering if it
would be worthwhile to ditch the OE transformer/rectifier for a modern
charger and separate power supply setup.  That is, a "smart charger" to
replace the wind-up clock mechanism and an Actron 40A or such to power
the auxiliary circuits when connected to AC.


 	
---------------------------------
Sponsored Link

Mortgage rates near 39yr lows. $420,000 Mortgage for $1,399/mo - Calculate new house payment
