Date: Mon, 14 Jul 2003 14:55:06 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: mneadow(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: AC Delco Alternator

At 12:33 PM 7/14/2003, tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com wrote:

>The thing is, the AC Delco alternators are MUCH smaller now, just as 
>reliable, and DO produce more juice. They are also EASY to get, easy 
>to replace, and may even produce less and retain less heat than the 
>stock VW alternators.

The problem is that the alternator, in a bus, is right above a heat exchanger and next to a cylinder head, and is completely enclosed by tin.  If you were to mount this AC Delco alternator in that space, how do you suppose it would shed all of the heat from its surroundings?  Not to mention the heat it creates itself.

>You know, you're probably going to get a lot of hard-lined old school people 
>telling you NOT to use the AC Delco alternators, and to go with original 
>equipment. However, I have to really concur with your idea.

There is more to this than simple stock-original-naziness.  There is a fundamental difference in the way the bus alternator works vs. almost every other alternator out there.  The bus alternator is fed cool air through a duct directly into the middle of the alternator.  Other alternators rely on recirculating the (presumably cool) air that surrounds the alternator in a water-cooled car who's engine is open to the atmosphere.  If the AC Delco alternator was mounted in the stock bus location it would suck super-hot air in from around the heads and exhaust and fry itself very quickly because it is NOT DESIGNED to work in such a hot, confined space.

By all means though, spend the money and try it if that floats yer boat.  Maybe it will work for a while, or if you just use your bus to get to work and back, maybe a long while.  Me, I thought about this mod too, years ago but when I took a hard look at the way the system was set up to work, I decided that there was a SIGNIFICANT risk of failure in such a modification.  I travel in my bus.  I have driven it from Canada to Mexico, Seattle to Miami and always gotten home under my own power.  I accomplished this by NOT taking risks with my engine - YMMV.

-David
