To: kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com
Date: Mon, 14 Jul 2003 16:15:02 -0700
From: Stephen Diercouff <sgd(-at-)tfm.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] CHT wiring 

> Actually it could have a big affect on the reading.  what won't have an
> affect on the reading though is to use the proper thermocouple wire and to
> twist it together and shrink wrap over the twist to give you your extra
> length.  any better science shop should have the stuff and your higher end
> geek stores also.

Cylinder Head Temperature gauge senders work by temperature differential.
They measure the temperature between the probe (cylinder head) and the cold
junction (wire connector at the other end of the probe). Most of the time
they're calibrated at 70f/21c. If the ambient temperature (i.e.  the
temperature at the wire connector end of the thermocouple wire) is 10 degrees
higher than the calibrated temperature then the CHT reading will be 10 degrees
low. The output power at the cold junction is very low, usually in the range
of 0-60mv. Extending the wires from the cold junction to the meter MAY cause
an erroneous reading because of the added resistance of the wire, which at
such low voltages could cause a significant voltage drop. Westach, for example,
say that such a patch cable can be up to 20' long and not affect readings,
given that 20-22ga stranded wire is used. I don't know about VDO, but most of
the higher-end CHT gauges have calibration procedures, and one could use the
patch cable as part of the test to calibrate. An accurate VOM, a resistor (1.5
ohm in the case of Westach -- get the spec or measure your thermocouple probe
to obtain the value for your particlular instrument), a millivolt source and
the calibration table for the instrument are required to do the test. 

In summary, if the gauge cannot be connected directly at the cold junction
regular wire should be used to extend the wire run, which may affect the
accuracy of the gauge.  A decent gauge should be able to be calibrated
to eliminate this inaccuracy.

Striving for such accuracy is useless unless one knows the ambient temperature
at the cold junction. This is doable by installing an ambient air temperature
sensor at the cold junction point and connecting it to the appropriate
instrument, but for most people the best use for a CHT gauge is not to try to
measure the absolute temperature at the head (btw, what part of the head is
best to use for such measurement? -- a whole new discussion there), but to
establish a baseline reading under various conditions and note unusual
deviations from these baselines.

--Stephen

--
Stephen Diercouff, tfm associates, Eugene Oregon          voice: +1 541 461 8928
Internet:  sgd(-at-)tfm.com                                      fax: +1 541 461 8929
Snail   :  P.O. Box 2086/Eugene OR 97402-0031 USA

They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.  -- Benjamin Franklin
