From: "Art Lynch" <artlynch78vw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>, <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2003 00:01:33 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus Depot prices to HIGH ! I Found parts way

OK;

   Mark, you're dead on.

   I've been sitting here at my computer watching yet another flame war
erupt regarding prices of VW parts available on the web.

   Here's the deal, and it is a lesson my wife and I learned early on in
life...

   Never buy cheap paint.

   It washes off within months, maybe even a year or two, but it washes off
nonetheless.

  Second, the dealer of product who stands by his work, even if it costs him
a buck or two now and then, is worth a hundred dealers who say, "you bought
it, I'm done."

   Ron has been above the level of fair with me. He's an honest businessman
who works hard to earn his money. I don't know of any other self employed
dealer of VW parts in America who personally travels to Europe and gathers
up the best deals for his fellow VW aficionados, and sells those hard won
parts at an honest profit, other than Ron.

   He's one of a kind.

   Anyone who has been, or are, self employed, know that you're not it the
business of performing charity work. You have kids to send to college,
electric bills, mortgages, car payments (well in old VW's case,
"Improvements, not monthly payments" in the words, paraphrased, of Seth
Avant of Laredo, Texas.)

   You get what you pay for, you want "cheap parts", you get "cheap parts".

   Walmart made Sam Walton millions, 'scuse me, billions, selling cheap
parts. I doubt any of them will ever reside in a museum.

   VW's already do.

Art Lynch
(self employed)
'78 Westy
'69 Bug
a host of VW projects on the back burner...
Pearson, Texas
(4 1/2 miles west of LaCoste)

Full disclosure, I stored a DC for Ron for a few months a few years ago
while he was scraping up the bucks to get it trucked to Pa. He came through
on the deal, sent me enough VW stuff to make it worth my while and the 64
sq. ft. of backyard his DC took up. Even though the pickup of the DC was an
adventure unto itself, I came away feeling Ron was a good guy, a man of his
word.

   "And that's the way it is, July 14, 2003..."

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Billy" <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>
To: <VWBrain(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Monday, July 14, 2003 6:05 PM
Subject: [T2] Bus Depot prices to HIGH ! I Found parts way cheaperhere


> Right on Mark!!
>
> And we customers (read: informed listmembers) expect the same ethic from
our local less-than-quality shops who try to take it the other way.
>
> (IE substituting crap for parts I bought and requested to be installed
because I know they're right)
