From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2003 07:58:06 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: AC Delco Alternator

Speaking of Fiat X-1/9s and Alternators.... 

I've been VERY much a Pontiac only man until just recently. However, I've
owned something like... 7 or 8 Fieros. I didn't trash any of them.. just
fixed them and sold them. The V6 Fieros however, from 1985 through 1987 came
with what we call the "Engine Compartment Fan". It's a VERY VERY LOW-OUTPUT
fan that sucks cool air in from the outside of the car, and sends it through
two aluminum tubes. One blows outside cool air directly into the rear of the
alternator, and the other blows outside air directly at the Ignition Coil.

This engine compartment fan however, ONLY comes on when you have the A/C
turned on. With that in mind, I'd also like to mention that the alternator
is mounted exactly 2"s from the bare naked exhaust manifold. In 1988, when
they completely redesigned the suspension and the engine compartment of the
Fiero, they got rid of the engine compartment fan. Same motor, same
alternator.. they just felt they didn't need it.

I will say though, that the engine compartment of the Fiero gets a million
times hotter than the engine compartment of my Bus. I can actually cook a
steak on the intake manifold, it's like a refrigerator in the Bus
compartment by comparisson.

 

Todd Jaspers - Programmer 
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale 
954-377-3291 

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
> 
> 
The bus alternator is fed cool air through a
duct directly into the middle of the alternator.

You know my alternator from my Fiat X1/9 is designed to have an air scoop
feed fresh air from the outside against its back through a flexible tin
hose.
