From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: wfp3(-at-)lycos.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2003 08:39:26 -0400
Subject: RE: AC Delco Alternator

Kinda nasty there. What makes you think this is a bigger = better idea? The
simple fact of the matter is that the more modern Delco alternators are
simply more developed than the alternator I have on my 73 VW Bus. 

I think you're wrong when you say that I 

"has a shred of investigation/study/practical knowledge"

If you knew anything about American cars, you'd know that half the parts on
GM cars ARE Bosch. The entire fuel injection system in all the V6 Fiero's
I've ever owned (Multi-Port) is of Bosch design. And they use Rochester fuel
injectors. Does that make it a bad design? No, my Fieros have all gone over
100k miles, one of which has gone more than 183k miles. They don't seem to
have any problems working together.


And just for your information, have you taken a look at any of the more
modern import cars on the road today??? Have you? Nearly half the Japanese
imports use DELCO alternators. You know why? Because if you have a Toyota
Camry, or a Honda Accord, or whatever else. Regardless of whether or not it
was built in the US or Japan. If your alternator goes out, you have to have
one shipped from the home country of the car (or have it rebuilt). 

Just a little FYI, Most Toyotas, including the Toyota Corolla, ALL Isuzus,
Volvos, etc.. all use Delco alternators now. They are allowed to sell them
to those companies now that GM no longer owns AC Delco / Delco Remey.

And speaking of "a shred of investigation/study/practical knowledge", since
when did the printing label on a car part have anything to do with the
characteristics of 12 volts of electricity?? Does it suddenly change?? 

I have a Bosch O2 sensor in my 1997 Pontiac GrandAm, does that mean my car
won't run right? NO...  The alternator in the VW Bus lives a MUCH MUCH MUCH
cooler life than 90% of the cars on the road today. In nearly every car I
own, the alternator spends it's time in 150+ degree temperatures. The VW Bus
engine compartment (at least mine is, maybe you're hard-lined thinking is
causing yours to run hot) would be a paradise for a Delco alternator.

And what do Mullets and Pork Chops have to do with Delco alternators? Why
don't you take your Peugot, and shove it where the sun doesn't shine.


Todd Jaspers - Programmer 
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale 
954-377-3291 

> CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
> for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
> and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
> distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
> contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
> message.
> 
> 
Better grow out your mullet/chops and fire up the 'ol Camaro if you're gonna
go down this road.

I'm not in the 

"hard-lined old school people" camp, but I have been listening closely to
list advice for 4 years and I can tell you that Bosch parts like other Bosch
parts.

Not to mention cooling arrangements? mounting? wiring? Delco alternators
have different working principles/testing methods than the stock Bosch. 

When you tire of your befungled bus project and pass it on, who's gonna be
stuck figuring out your engineering defeat?

This is just a bigger=better bad American idea.

Customize your exhaust or interior? Sure. Principal players in the
electrical primary? Bosch.

I don't think the person who recommended this as a "good idea" has a shred
of investigation/study/practical knowledge invested in the advice you're
getting.

Billy
