Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2003 08:23:22 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Art Lynch <artlynch78vw(-at-)hotmail.com>, wfp3(-at-)lycos.com,
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus Depot prices to HIGH ! I Found parts way

I'm going to jump in here real quick and vote for BD. I have bought from 
them and most times it's been cheaper than my other sources and when it 
wasn't - it was better in quality than my other sources. Believe you me I'd 
rather buy a good part for a little more once (and install it once, and pay 
shipping for it once, and be off the road once) than annually because I 
bought parts from the Taiwanese suppliers at a GREAT CUT RATE.

I sold parts for a while for a FLAPS (Advance Auto). There is a HUGE 
difference in quality between the good parts and the cheap parts. I mean 
within the inventory of Advance Auto and within the business (Advance Auto 
vs. NAPA or the dealer). I watched folks buy the cheapest parts and come 
back within a year to replace it again. Folks, if the original starter 
lasted 20 years then the replacement damn well better last at least 10 
more.... My time and trouble to replace a part is worth something too.

I try to balance quality with my budget. I buy from suppliers I know will 
send me the right part and a good part. BD has always done that. JC Whipme 
for example has not (talk about inflated shipping! based on price only).To 
me (if you ignore the shipping prices) JC Whipme is like Wal-Mart. They 
sell cheap stuff. May not fit, may have to cut apart and rewelded, or it 
may only last a year but it's CHEAP. I spent alot of money with JC when I 
was in the Navy and needed a good mail-order supplier (this was before the 
Internet understand) with a toll-free number and a detailed catalog. I had 
not even heard of  Bus-Depot and I didn't have a bus anyhow.

I bought from JC mufflers that didn't fit (too expensive to ship back), 
rubber that failed in a year (and I had to cut the pieces out of a large 
sheet of rubber parts), parts so generic that they didn't even resemble the 
original part I was replacing.

At least from BD I know I'll get the right part and a quality part.

I'm not sure why Ron has to defend his business so often... He supplies to 
us at reasonable prices (sometimes the best) things we could not get 
anywhere else. I'm not slighting Busted Bus or any of the other listers 
that sell parts but they don't get slammed quite as often as Ron does. If I 
had not done business with Ron I might think Ron was doing something wrong 
but I've done business with him several times and it has always gone well.

Let's move on and quit slamming on Bus Depot. How many times do you think 
the list can beat the guy up before he ceases to answer questions on the 
list - or worse - sells out to someone with a fraction of the interest in 
VW's who then becomes like any of the suppliers in the VW rags selling 
parts at the cheapest price and lowest quality?

If price is your motivating factor then vote with your dollars for another 
supplier - with another supplier. JC Whipme is still out there  as is a 
dozen other suppliers with glossy catalogs and flashy parts made in Taiwan .

I could shop locally (90 miles south in Chattanooga) with a VW parts house 
but I gave up that bad habit years ago after paying Bus Depot prices for 
JUNK that did not last 90 days of daily service. CV boots that failed - no 
warranty. Bushings that failed - no warranty. Tuneup parts that failed - no 
warranty. Beware of parts that come in plain white boxes... <grin>

  Those of us who balance price and quality will stay with Bus Depot and be 
happy.



Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
