From: kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2003 09:10:12 -0700
Subject: alt vs gen

i copied this off the net which gives a very good but basic explanation of
what the differences are.

GENERATOR
The generator is like an electric motor in reverse. Instead of applying
electricity to it to make it spin, when you spin it, it makes electricity.
It does this by spinning a
series of windings of fine wire (called the armature) inside of a fixed
magnetic field by connecting them to a belt and pulley arrangement on the
engine. As the armature
is spun by the rotation of the belt and pulley, it gets a current and
voltage generated in those windings of wire. That current and voltage will
be directly proportional to the
speed that the armature spins and to the strength of the magnetic field. If
you spin it faster, it makes more and if you make the magnetic field
stronger it makes more
current. The speed of the spinning is controlled by the speed of the engine
- that's why you need to rev the engine up to help charge the battery
faster. The magnetic
field is controlled by an electro-magnet, so by changing the amount of
current supplied to the electro-magnets that make up the field you control
the strength of the
magnetic field. This current is referred to as the "field" current and it
is controlled by the regulator in response to the electrical needs of the
automobile at any given time.

The voltage of the generator is controlled by the number of windings in the
armature. The current output varies widely from zero if the battery is
perfectly charged and
nothing is using any power up to the maximum rated output of the generator.
The current output is controlled by the field current, but also by the
speed at which the
armature is spinning. This is important because a generator can only put
out it's maximum rated current at or above some speed - at lower speeds the
output drops off
very quickly. This is why a generator-equipped car will not charge (or even
maintain!) the battery at idle and this is one of the main reasons for the
development of the
alternator.


ALTERNATOR
The key different between an alternator and a generator is what spins and
what is fixed. On a generator windings of wire (the armature) spin inside a
fixed magnetic
field. On an alternator, a magnetic field is spun inside of windings of
wire called a stator to generate the electricity. This allows the wires to
be directly and easily
connected to their outputs without the need for sliding contacts to carry
the relatively high output current. The magnetic field is still generated
via electro magnets
mounted on a rotor, and the relatively small field current that powers them
is supplied to the rotor by two small brushes that each ride on a separate
and continuous slip
rings. These smooth slip rings (unlike the comparatively rough contacts on
a commutator in a generator) and the fact that the relatively heavy
windings are fixed instead
of rotating allows the alternator to be spun to much higher speeds. This
allows it to reach it's maximum output sooner and to be spun fast enough at
engine idle speeds to
produce enough electricity to power most (if not all) of the needs of the
car without relying on the battery.

Paul A. Kagel
SCE/Maint/Win Team
89-971
