Date: Tue, 28 Jun 2005 09:07:56 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: dan gordon <dangordon0128(-at-)hotmail.com>, vans <type2(-at-)type2.com>, 
Subject: Re: [T2] 83 Adventurewagen update and story

Dan, buy the right books, make sure you have a place to work, and get started. None of these items are terminal. I know of lots of people who will ditch a modern vehicle over a blown engine. Fix it and drive another 300K miles. 

Rent a U-haul trailer and borrow a big tow vehicle (big because U-haul won't rent to you otherwise). Or... rent their truck and their trailer. Maybe that a bit of CASH would get you a better rate with a flatbed truck (i.e. "rollback" truck). 

Make a space to work and get started. Mufflers and brake are cheap (buy good stuff though) and engines seem to be hit or miss from the catalog. I'd accept the adventure of it and build one carefully. Buy good parts (i.e. not the cheapest stuff from JC Whitney) from known good sources. Assemble carefully and inspect everything as you go. EVERY VW I have ever bought was missing details - bits and pieces of the cooling system, exhaust parts, heater parts, etc. They ran and drove but a few more pieces had been lost here and there each time the POs took it apart to fix something. Locate and reinstall everything missing from the factory. 

Also try to get the right parts - most of the VW's I had had parts from all sorts of other VWs. Mismatched carbs and distributors, alternators, etc. Find out what is right for you bus and make it so. Taken one piece at a time this is not difficult though the grand picture seems pretty daunting sometimes. 

Don't feel bad. I once bought a '72 Westy hardtop in North GA. Towed it on a tow dolly 300 miles home through the TN and GA mountains to Cookeville where I live. (It works but I won't recommend this...) Razor thin budget. Bought it with a known blown engine. Got it home and surprise the bottom of the floors had been dipped in rust. No rust through, but had been sitting on wet ground for sometime. HAD to be addressed. Arizona bus my backside... Once upon a time maybe. Engine was blown but so was the tranny - surprise... Sold it when my current '78 stopped for a visit. Guy thought I might be able to fix it for him. Bad fuel pump. We traded - he got my Accord, I got the bus. The rest is history... (saw that Accord the other day. 300K+ with the original drivetrain!).

Have fun - and CHANGE THOSE FUEL LINES ASAP!!!! <grin!>

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
