Date: Tue, 28 Jun 2005 13:07:52 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Messa,Corbett (GE Infrastructure)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>, 
Subject: RE: [T2] need new engine

Potential problem I see is the turbo engine running with boost much of the time and cooking the top end. Bigger and heavier than a Subbieroo. May require more throttle to keep the VW moving at highway speeds than the Subbieroo did and thus the constant or nearly constant boost. 

Radiator locations I have seen on a Type II: 

on the roof, 
in place of the front spare tire (disguised as the spare), 
on the nose but not disguised, 
under the nose (add grille to outside of nose and air box to inside - this is my favorite), 
flat under the floor - middle, 
two small radiators straddling the transmission (most likely motorcycle radiators and usually on Beetles), 
fastened to the outside of the sides of the bus, 
replace the engine compartment door with a radiator,  or 
two radiators - one on each side of engine compartment with fans of course (where the batteries are), and 
last and my least favorite - in place of the rear hatch - as in, inside the passenger compartment with you... The vintage splitty was NICE but I suspect the interior will only be used for stereo equipment or something. I'd hate to have a hot radiator hose blow with my family in the backseat! 

You'll have to creative about where you choose, and you'll have to decide how hidden you want your radiator to be. I try to duplicate OEM quality myself i.e. a sleeper desite my mods. Hmm, how would the factory do it? Look at ShopTalkForums and read the "Conversion Perversions" section. Often there are pics. I think TheSamba also has some conversion pics though I can't advise you where to look. Couple of other good website I can direct you to if you wish. 

The Vanagon guys love the Subbieroo implants so they might be good to talk to. I have driven a couple Subbieroos but never worked on them, never owned one so I don't know their habits (good or bad). Mark Dearing brought up some good points. 

There is a nice doublecab on ShopTalkForums in Australia with the radiator under the floor in the middle. Nice, and apparently a success. Better than average a/c and heat options would be nice! 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L (Corvair)
Cookeville, TN
