Date: Tue, 28 Jun 2005 17:13:57 -0400
From: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: turbo2cv(-at-)gmail.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Overheating / timing

(snip)
>-	Still playing with timing on the stock 
>advance/retard dizzy. Timing seems to be a real compromise 
>between power and fuel economy on one side and heat and 
>pinging on the other. The 71 dp is supposed to be timed at 
>5deg ATDC with the stock vacuum advance/retard distributor. 
>That is not happening for me, with such a setting the 
>engine does not have enough power to idle and even when it 
>does it has no power on the road. 


Arnaud,

You are a gentleman and a scientist--that's an excellent discussion of 
empirical results for the archives. are you timing it statically or at 
idle? should be at idle.  you are welcome to borrow a strobe if you need 
it. does timing bounce around? dizzy maybe worn like mine.

I advise to ditch the retard line and plug your manifold port. you don't 
need retard. you can leave the retard port open on the dist.  Even Karl 
who is big on emissions equipment in CA recommended this for my T1 
application.  use the advance only. I assume you are using a 205 dist. 
of some sort.   I set mine at 5-7 BTDC (205 E w/retard disconnected) 900 
rpm idle with strobe.  if it still pings then use higher octane gas.  if 
you don't want to pay for higher octane gas, back it off till it stops 
pinging under load. 

If you try bigger main jets you will run the risk of fouling your plugs, 
plus it will bog down under acceleration, and waste gas. BTDT. please 
let us know what you find out though, if you do try it.

220 F is an acceptable oil temp, I would be comfortable to 230 for a 
while, nothing to freak out over. just change oil frequently and use 
heavy oil like you are.  really, but I have a CHT gauge to watch also 
and oil temp doesn't really tell that much about your head temps.  
There's a porsche 911 owner's manual (2.4E/S) that recommends not to 
exceed 265 F oil temp! one P fellow recommended that 240 is hot and 250 
is too damn hot. as long as you have pressure--perhaps VW engines have 
bigger clearances thus need to run a little cooler to keep the pressure 
up.  CHT/oil temp/oil pressure gauges are a great combination.  together 
they tell the whole story.

that's my 2 cents. try it, you'll like it.  Have fun down south!!!
Will A.
Atlanta, GA
'70 Westy "Rebertha"
