Date: Thu, 30 Jun 2005 10:34:19 -0400
To: R C <rcnotes(-at-)gmail.com>,type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Rogers <jnrogers5555(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Solar Power and Second Battery

At 09:51 AM 6/30/05 -0400, R C wrote:
>Does anyone out there use a second battery with solar recharging for
>12 volt and/or 120v power for lighting and appliances in their bus?

Funny you should mention this. I've been thinking about adding a 50-watt
solar panel. Mine is a 1970 Westy, and a 33"x21" or similar size should fit
nicely within the confines of the the (rear) luggage rack and not be
visible. Haven't done it yet but am getting real close.

My set-up is a simple one. I have a second, deep-cycle battery installed
under the jump seat. The bus is wired so the radio, interior lights,
flashers, 12-volt outlet and 400-watt inverter run off this battery. Not
hard to do, really.  Just replace the hot wire at the fuse box with one
from the auxillary battery. 

I also have is a switch under the dash to connect the two batteries. When
driving I turn it on so both batteries charge. Parked or cammping I turn it
off. (If I were to do it again I might use a relay connected to the
ignition to make the switch automatic.)

All-in all the system works well. 

Now the reason for a solar panel.

Snugged between the front seats of my bus is an Engel 15-liter
fridge/freezer. It is very efficient and will keep a constant 40 degrees in
hot weather (you can set it much lower, even to zero) using only about
12-15 amps over a 24-hour period. Twelve to 15 amps is about the same power
you can expect to get from a 3-amp, 50-watt solar panel. And so the appeal:
Camp anywhere for days, have cold beverages at the ready, and noneed for a
hookup. 

Another more reason why the luggage rack seems a good place for a solar
panel is because panels generate a lot of heat underneath and need to be
elevated to cool and work efficiently. The lugage rack bars are a natural.
I plan to  remove the two in the middle connect the panel at the #2 & #5
bars. 

One disadvantage to the luggage rack placement is that the bus will need to
be parked so that the raised poptop doesn't cast a shadow on the panel.
This may not always be possible. A work around is to make the panel to be
detachable, so that when necessary it can be removed from the bus and
placed on the ground or somewhere else in sunshine.

You will need a charge controller, a small one goes for about $25-$35, to
keep your battery/batteries from overcharging. Other than that and a bit of
wire you should be in business.

Cheers,

John  
