From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 9 Sep 2009 22:53:54 -0400
Subject: 7th Annual Bus Boo hosted by Buses By the Beach in Grand

Hi Volk Folks!

Labor Day Weekend is behind us, and ahead of us is the best time of the year
to go camping! We love when most Americans put away their humungous RV's,
hang it up for the year and leave the great outdoors to us Volks Folks.
"Buses By the Beach" is hosting our 7th annual fall campout, "BUS BOO!"
September is a magical time of year to camp with Friends and we hope to see
you there. 

 

"BUS BOO," our annual fall campout and Halloween before Halloween party will
be held in Grand Rapids, MI at Grandrogue Campground Sept. 18th, 19th &
20th. It looks like we are in for another great turn out of Bus Pilots and
VW lovers from all over. So bring your musical instruments for some campfire
jamin'. Remember, it's not about sounding good, just feeling good!

If you have not made reservations please call the campground so we can plan
for camping space. Call Grandrogue at 1-616-361-1053 located at 6400 West
River Drive, Belmont, MI 49306. Make sure you tell them that you are with
"Buses By the Beach" group so they can group us all together.
http://www.grandrogue.com/

We will be camping during the West Michigan Living History and Educational
Association presentation of Early America Encampment at Grand Rogue
Campground. Visitors can view first hand what life in early America was
like. There will be period craftsmen demonstrating their skills, including a
blacksmith and a woodworker. Working with hand tools, they show how everyday
implements were made in early America. At the Encampment, history buffs
wearing authentic period clothing and living in period shelters, present
programs throughout the weekend. Activities will include musket and cannon
firing, men's and women's period fashion shows and tactical demonstrations.
For more information on the Early American encampment go to:
http://www.westmichiganlivinghistory.com/

Weekends activities include:
* Early American encampment.
* Halloween Theme campout.
* Bus to Bus trick or treat.

*Tie Dye Activity. If interested bring a white, 100% cotton, pre-washed
item. One item per person please.

*7th Annual "Buses By the Beach" Chili Cook Off
* Award Ceremony:
    1. Best Halloween Site Decoration Award
    2. Best Kids Halloween Costume Award.
    3. Best Adult Halloween Costume Award.
    4. The Coveted Chili Cup for the winner of the Chili Cook Off 

 

For more details please visit our website at www.busesbythebeach.com
<http://www.busesbythebeach.com/> 

 

Wishing you many miles of smiles in your VW!

The Volks at "Buses By the Beach"
