From: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 22 Sep 2009 10:45:51 EDT
To: vintagebus-digest-help(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: nattybus 2010

hello Guys  For the last couple of years we have been restoring a VW  bus 
to raffle off at  _www.naturalbus.net_ (http://www.naturalbus.net/)  with the 
most of  the money going to the local Roanoke Va Ronald mcDonald house. We 
raised $4200,  but kept $1000 for next year bus so that those of us who did 
put the first year  money up didn't have to do it the following year.
First year a group of us bought a 71 westy and with the help of a lot of  
different people and parts vendors we restored it.  It turned out great. A  
lucky guy in lynchburg Va bought 2 tickets and won it.  As far as I know he  
is still driving it 
 last year we did a 73 hardtop camper ,it also turned out great thanks  
again to people and vendors helping supplie is in parts, again we raised a  
little over $4200 , Some lucky guy from Martinsville Va bought one ticket and  
won it and is still driving it today. We kept $1000 aside for this years  
bus.
this year we were donated a 73 westy from darrell Philips of Silver lakes  
Vw in Wilminton NC It will need some work but nothing we can't handle. The  
engine needs rebuilding and body work including installing a front nose that 
 darrell sent with the bus, pop top canvas , seat covers etc..
 
We are looking for help getting parts and such and anybody that wants to  
help us sand and body work and paint is welcome to do such
For info go to _www.fullmoonbusclub.com_ (http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com/)  
  forums , around the campfire, introducing "nattybus 10" here we go  
thread.  on there is listed a parts wish list.  thanks for any help  anybody can 
do. the last 2 years the head of the McDonald house has told us we  help 
feed 18 familys that had stayed there for over 3 months. we feel like this  is 
a great cause and makes for one exciting drawing at the campout.  Ticket  
has to be present to win.  later and have fun  Mark  dearing
