Date: Sun, 09 Sep 2001 13:39:47 -0700
From: Paul and/or Deanna Sinfield <plaidbus(-at-)mediaone.net>
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: Valve adjustment question


Greetings, Will:

I adjusted the valves on my 69 Transporter just yesterday, which was my absolute FIRST try at doing
anything to ANY engine and environs.  I too used that Muir book, and found it very clear... For what
it's worth, I think it was a success - almost all my valves were tight, and after I had them
adjusted the bus ran a lot quieter and had more power...Who would've believed it, I fixed my car
myself! ; )

You might check out Sean Bartnik's guide to valve adjustment in the type2.com library under
"maintenance"...His instructions plus Muir's made it all extra clear...

Muir recommended gluing the new gaskets onto the valve covers when you're through with the
adjusting, but Sean advised just applying some wheel bearing grease (I had a tube for bicycle ball
bearings) to the gaskets, which made more sense to me and seems to work fine, no visible leaks so
far... Also Sean says use steel wool to clean the covers, etc., not sandpaper as Muir says.

I had to PUT the paint marks on my pulley, but per your question, my pulley has a v-shaped notch on
the inside edge (the edge closest to the front of the car) where I painted my TDC mark.  I would
swear that on mine there's only one notch, but Muir's drawing on page 97 (14th ed.) shows three, as
you say...  You just line up the paint mark with the crankcase crack and that's it for #1.  I didn't
seem to have that "file mark" on my distributor rim either, but the drawing in Muir on page 98
bottom shows where it should point for all four cylinders...

Good luck and have fun!

Paul Sinfield
plaidbus(-at-)mediaone.net
69 Transporter 'Cranky the Wonder Bus'

_________

I am fairly new to the VW world and am attempting my first valve adjustment
this weekend with the help of "How to Keep Your VW Alive." However, I am
confused about one point in the process - TDC.  To get #1 to firing
position, do I simply line up the paint mark with the crankcase crack - and
that's it? The book mentions a file mark on the distributor rim, which mine
does not have. Also, do I use the paint mark on the left or the right (I
have three). I appreciate any help. Thanks.

WK
70 Camper


