From: "Rob Laffoon" <captoaster(-at-)cox.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 12:10:02 -0600
Subject: Burnt bus fund/update  Chris's word's!!

This was sent to the Buskatiers forum and pertains to talk not on this list
but thought you would want to know!
Ronnie at www.type2parts.com is accepting donations towards a new bus.  The
sooner the better!!  We raised close to $1000 at BBB8!!  And it was very
kind of London Bridge Bullis to allow it.  They deserve a giant Thank You
here.  Oh and Jerry Jess called BBB8 but I didn't talk to him but he is
getting better.
Rob

Chris's words..

Yes, that was one of the kind firemen who FINALLY arrived, after what seemed
like an eternity, to put out what was left of the bus (as you can tell, not
much). The body panels were extremely warped and I knew immediately that it
was a total lost cause. MAYBE the front wheels, but I wouldn't even count on
it. At one point I thought about grabbing the spare off the front, just
because those tires were just 24 hours old (that pissed me off) but then I
remembered the tire guys telling me that particular wheel was bent, so I
thought it wasn't worth risking the much feared explosion that never
actually happened. Besides, I didn't have the strength in my legs to walk to
the bus and remove it by then. I thought about getting pictures of the fire,
but I didn't have the strength in my heart to get the camera out. Besides, I
didn't REALLY want photographic evidence to remind me of this horrible
event. Having scorched toys and stuff is bad enough.

Thank you all for your support, both financially and emotionally. It has
brought me to tears on many occasions, thinking about how everyone has
stepped up to help us out when you have absolutely no obligation. I was so
stressed about the fact that I had liability only insurance and not enough
money to start over with a new bus... that one cost me $900, then Pete
rebuilt the engine and put about $300 into it, plus parts off my beetle that
I have to replace if I ever get it started (starter and Alt.) not to mention
roughly $1000 worth of parts I have put into it in the 2 years I owned it...
ALL new inner and outer wheel bearings, upper and lower wheel cylinders,
master cylinder, hoses, shoes rear CV boots, plus the brand new tires I had
installed the previous afternoon for $500, new CD player and 3-way 6x9s
($300 including install charges)... the thought of all that money was
devastating, not to mention things in the cabinets I just forgot was
there... Mark, you can see the metal bowl you loaned me to give Red water at
that campout in Arkansas last spring... sorry. Morgan lost her bike helmet
and Barbie roller-blades because I forgot I stuck them under the jump
seat... and necklaces hanging on the mirror... stuff like that... but to
read all these messages... and know that everyone has come together to help
us buy a new bus, just makes me want to cry. That is one of the reasons I
will ALWAYS love these cars, because the people who care enough to drive
them, care about each other...

Thank you all so very much,
Chris
