From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 20 Jan 2004 12:00:21 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] front seat area?

----- Original Message -----

> It seems like it would help the bus keep it's shape.  In the rear, you've
> got all the sheet metal that separates the engine from the cabin to keep
the
> shape in the rear.  Up front, you could have the bench seat partition
could
> help keep the shape in the front (there's still the frames for the
> walkthrough sections on a walkthrough bus).  I'm not sure how much this
> would affect the bus for daily use, but it might become evident in a
wreck.
> Don't quote me on any of this, as I've never been told this, it's just
what
> it seems like to me.
>

But this is exactly what i'm talking about. I've never seen anything
factual. Only what people theorize. Theories can lead to a lot of false
information. The bus should keep its shape just fine with the roof and the
floor. It's the egg effect.

Anyone with a benchseat cut out (and have had it cut out for a while) give
some personal insight? Any unwanted bodyflex? I know my uncut 64 has some
bodyflex as it is with a full benchseat. Driving out of the neighborhood,
going through dips a little crooked, you can hear the ice around the side
doors cracking from the flexing. So some flexing is normal, but have you
noticed any excessive flexing? The underside of my 66 walkthrough, and my 64
bench look the same, so there's no added bracing there. The floor up the
middle stays at floor level, so there is nothing there that makes it as
'strong' as a bench, but again, I always hear about how badly it weakens the
body. Does it keep it's strength if you only cut between a couple of bucket
seats, leaving the rest of the bulkhead in place? This seems it would be
even stronger, since the bench seat hump is still there.

Then again, look at the bay window buses. They offered swivel passenger
seats, so not only are they a walkthrough, but the only bulkhead is behind
the driver. The body's are very similar structurally, so I do think this is
a good example.

I gain nothing one way or another, just feeding the curiosity. Anyone else
feel like getting to the bottom of it?
Maybe i'm just bored.....
:-)

Eric Allred
Aircooled.Net
