Date: Sun, 1 Jun 2003 09:19:29 -0400
From: Chris Slaymaker <Nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: trip report ramblings -  gauges

I got back Friday (5/31) from an impromptu vacation with the family 
(Melissa and I, Emma and our dog, Greta).

The weekend of May 15-16-17, we went to Cumberland Falls State Park in 
Kentucky in hopes of seeing a moonbow.  It didn't happen.  We got 
rained on a lot.  But we had fun.

The following weekend we went camping with a bunch of friends at the 
Cosby Campground in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park.  Sorry I 
missed you folks at Full Moon in June.  But we had fun.

 From that event, we packed Lurch up for the long haul to Grayton Beach 
State park in Florida.  We left Greta at home, but picked up Emma's 
best friend Laurel for the trip.  We left Monday morning at 8:30 and 
got there at 7:30 that evening.  We stayed through the week and played 
in the surf and got sunburn and went shopping and ate seafood and then 
left Friday morning.  Lots of folks, particularly the younger ones, 
were groovin' on our bus.

Throughout he whole ordeal, Lurch performed flawlessly.  Basically, I 
let the RPMs max out at 4000 (which translated to about 65-70 MPH on 
the speedometer - correction factor of -5).  Oil temp never got over 
230 (usually around 220) and CHT never got over 350 or so.  Oil 
pressure stayed above 40 psi (at maximum temps) and HIOP was never 
below 15 or 20.  For some reason, the idle is a little high (-at-) 1000-1100 
RPM.

Driving back, I got to thinking (uh, oh).

No one has been able to approach what VW did (and what we have) in the 
VW type 2.

I saw all these SUVs on the road, and all that brought to mind was 
"conspicuous consumerism" (that is to say, "I have this big ass 
expensive car that I know nothing about and that I will never utilize 
for what it was designed for").  I saw all these minivans on the road 
and I thought, "They just don't get it - there is not a minivan out 
there that captures the essence of the VW bus."  Of course, I felt real 
good cuz I thought every one of those cars was a feeble attempt to 
emulate the VW type 2.

I can take my bus almost anywhere these SUVs can go.  I can carry just 
about anythying (and more) that these minivans (AND SUVs) can carry, 
and still do it in style.  I can fix just about anything that goes 
wrong.

The only downfall to the aircooled technology is our greedy infatuation 
with speed.  Anywhere we go, we want to go FAST.

In our bus, however, the TRIP is the thing - the destination is just 
secondary.  We'll get there, so what's the hurry?

Air conditioning?  I don't need no stinkin' A/C!  And we had FUN!


Chris, Melissa, and Emma Slaymaker
Knoxville, Tennessee
1971 Westfalia  "Lurch"

"...at least I'm enjoying the ride."
