From: "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 1 Jun 2004 14:10:24 -0700
Subject: Brake Lights Fixed!! (and cooling tin stuff)

Woot!!!

$11.99 Wells brakelight switch from Autozoned
+
A few feet of wire and some spade connectors
=
Working brake lights!!!

Apparently the switches have both gone bad due to some really nasty black
brake fluid. I installed the new Wells one to keep me going for the moment,
but I now know that I need all new soft lines and master cylinder. The amount
of black in that fluid is scary! Adding to my budget list... :-(

Also, the 12v line had been cut. I can't find where but there's zero
continuity between the wire in the engine compartment and the wire at the
switches. So I ran a temporary wire down there. Not perfect, but it will do
until I get into tearing the brakes completely apart. The cast iron calipers
are rusty too, so I may need EVERYTHING. :-( Now THAT's an expensive prospect
that my wife will not be happy about.

While working out there I went ahead and started sealing up the cooling tin.
Since the heat exchangers are gone, there are 2 large holes where the pipes to
the blower were and the connections to the fan shroud. Grabbed some spare
sheet aluminum flashing (roofing supplies), copper silicone stuff, and tin
snips and cut out bits to fit all these holes. Siliconed 'em in and all sealed
now.

I did a couple runs around the block and the bus is running MUCH better. I
hadn't realized how hot that engine was getting with all that open space
between the top and bottom of the engine. I still need a foam seal (there's
tape on there now) but I'm super happy. It's running STRONG! Seems that every
time I do something, it runs a little bit better, even if it's something that
you wouldn't think would have any effect. heh

Check the pics here: http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/pics/

I've upped pics of what I did today, including some before and after pics of
using mother's aluminum polish. =D

Happy bussing!!
Don
