From: "Budd Premack" <bpremack(-at-)mn.rr.com>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Budd" <bpremack(-at-)mn.rr.com>
Date: Wed, 2 Jun 2004 01:52:41 -0500
Subject: Rescheduled VW Campout in Lanesboro, MN - June 18-20

  Due to flood-inspired conditions a week ago, the Over the Rainbow Campout
 has been rescheduled.

 Date: Friday through Sunday, June 18-20, 2004

 Location: Eagle Cliff Campground at Lanesboro, MN
 130 miles southeast of the Twin Cities, an easy 2 1/2 hour drive

 Time: Friday evening through Sunday afternoon.  The earlybird
 gathering will occur on Friday with the caravan starting shortly after noon
on
 Saturday.  Since Sunday is Father's Day, we understand if an early
 departure may be chosen by some campers.

 Join us for a fun weekend in the scenic Bluff Country along the Root
 River of southeastern Minnesota. We will camp in our own section of a
 well-equipped private campground. Facilities include shaded campsites
 with electrical hook-ups, picnic tables and fire pits, heated bathrooms
 with showers, covered picnic shelter, and playground.  There are even a few
 motel units available.

 Activities in the immediate area include 60 miles of paved bike trails,
fishing,
 rafting, canoeing, and tubing along the Root River.  All equipment is
 available for rent if you choose not to bring your own.  Substantial
 shopping opportunities (including Amish goods) abound in historic Lanesboro
and
 nearby communities.

 Schedule:

 Friday
 Earlybird opportunity for those who desire a full weekend
 camping experience.

 Saturday
 12:00 noon - Gather together and Lunch (bring your own) at campground
 1:00 P.M. - Caravan through the winding byways to several
 unique attractions.  These activites are appropriate for all ages and
 physical abilities. The remainder of the afternoon is open for your
 choice of activities. Please be sure your vehicle has enough gas for a 100
mile
 drive.  Although we anticipate a much shorter journey, some of us have
 been known toget lost, and others may simply enjoy exploring the winding
 byways along our route.
 6:00 P.M.(approximately) - Dinner at campground, followed by campfire

 Sunday
 A.M. - Breakfast at campground.  Churches of various denominations are
 located in Lanesboro.
 P.M. - Choice of activities, with potential caravan back to Twin Cities or
 other common destinations.

 Cost per night: $15 per campsite (1-2 persons, $5 extra for
 electricity).  Extra adults are $7.50, children are $3.

 Please check in at campground office with Gail as you arrive.  You will be
 directed to our special camping area.

 The campground website is www.eaglecliff-campground.com  Please check
 this for specific campground directions and information.

 All Vanagon, Eurovan and VW Bus enthusiasts are welcome. You need not
 even arrive in a VW; fellowship, not rules, is the primary concern.  Tent
 sites are available in our group area, rv sites are nearby, and lodging is
 available both at the campground and in nearby Lanesboro. If you can't
 come for the entire event, please drop in whenever you can. Bring your own
 food, firewood, and all other preferred gear and equipment. Grocery,
 hardware, and numerous other stores and eating establishments are located
 in Lanesboro.

 Directions:
 Eagle Cliff Campground is located on MN Highway 16, just 3 miles east
 of  Lanesboro, MN.  Lanesboro is 40 miles southeast of Rochester, MN.  If
you
 are coming from the Twin Cities, take U.S. 52 through Rochester,
 continue southeast 34 miles to Fountain, MN, go east 8 miles on Filmore
County
 Road 8 to Lanesboro, turn right (south) on the main street (Parkway Avenue)
for 1/2 mile to MN 16, go east 3 miles on MN Highway 16 to Eagle Cliff
 Campground.  (If you get to Whalen, MN, turn around, as you have gone 1
 mile too far east.)  Access from Iowa and points south is via U.S. 52
through
 Decorah, IA to Canton, MN, go north 13 miles on Filmore County Road 21 to
 Lanesboro, go east 3 miles on MN Highway 16 to Eagle Cliff Campground.

 The success of any gathering of this type depends chiefly upon those
 attending. We hope you will take the opportunity to become a member of
 this annual event and join your fellow VW enthusiasts in a fun-filled,
relaxing
weekend getaway. As a special added bonus, Carol's famous homemade
 chocolate chip cookies may again be available.

 Please address any questions to bpremack(-at-)mn.rr.com   In order to assist in
 planning, PLEASE RSVP as soon as practical. However, there is plenty of
 room available, so late responses or even drop-ins are welcome. Please feel
 free to forward this message to any interested party.


 Budd and Carol Premack
 86 Syncro, 88 Wolfsburg
 Land of Sky-Blue Waters
 Minneapolis, MN

 Chuck and Barb Hill
 (too many VWs to list)
 Beautifully Rural Dysart, IA
