From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Jun 2004 08:27:52 -0700
Subject: [T2]child seats and child comfort

Hey Cha,

I'm not a camper driver so I wouldn't be the right guy to tell you how to
set up a 3 point harness on a collapsable bed, but this is something that I
would definately call the department of motor vehicles about, and I might
even inquire with my insurance carrier to find out if any 'creative' setup
would render my insurance policy ineffective.

I have a buddy of mine with an old post WWII Willy's.  Here in Oregon State
they are also non tolerant of folks who are not wearing their seat belts.
Well, he got pulled over one night by the State Police and they ticketed him
for not wearing a seat belt.  He told the officer that the vehicles were not
built with belts and he was not an engineer and therefore not qualified to
adapt the structure of the vehicle for such a harnass.  Well, he got the
reply of 'Tell it to the judge.'  To make a long story short, he told it to
the judge, and the judge threw it out.  Turns out that Oregon actually has
laws for such instances.  Evidentally, if a vehicle in Oregon was never
equipped by the manufacturer (predates the safety reg's) with such a
harnass, you are not required to supply them.  The judge then informed John
(my buddy) that if he had modified the vehicle and found himself in an
accident, that it was very likely that law and the insurance company would
not have been on John's side because he was not qualified to make such an
adaptation.

There are people who do this type of adaptation on vehicles for a living.
If your state requires such hoops for you to jump through for safety's sake,
it would certainly be in your best interest to make a few phone calls to be
aware of them, prior to installing your own harnasses.

I am not saying that you wouldn't do a good job.  I am not saying that you
couldn't put a harnass into your bus that would secure a miniature pony.
I'm just saying that while you are considering the safety and comfort of
your little one, that you also take into consideration the other aspects of
do it yourself vehicle safety.

On another line of thinking, I have seen car seats that were large enough to
comfortably hold the aforementioned miniature pony in safety and comfort,
although I am sure that it would be cheaper than getting solid advice on a
safe and equitable solution from the amazing folks on this list.  Good luck
to ya my man, be sure to fire out an email letting us know the details of
your innevitable prevailing success.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
