Date: Wed, 5 Nov 2003 06:54:28 -0800 (PST)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, list vintage bus
Subject: Attention Bus T-shirt collectors!!

Hey Y'all,
I am getting some Bus t-shirts printed up for our
local bus group (Ohio Valley Tribe of the FMBC) and I
wanted to give anyone else who is interested in Bus
t-shirts a chance to order one. Here is the info I
sent out a few days ago:

>>You can either choose the design from the original
run of shirts with the picture of the split,
baywindow, vanagon, and EV in a line up. OR you can
choose from the NEW design pictured on the following
link. I will take orders from now until November 8,
 then the shirts will be ready for shipping to you by
November 22 and be in everybody's hands in plenty of
time for Christmas!
The shirts are quality professionally printed name
brand tshirts. There are a few more options
available for this order. You can order any sizes
Youth Small thru Adult XXXL, and you have the choice
of White Shirt\Black graphic, Gray Shirt\Black
Graphic, or Forest Green Shirt\White graphic.  Cost
for sizes up thru XL will be $12.  Add $1 for each
additional "X". 
I can ship these shirts anywhere in the US via
priority mail for $3.95 (1-2 shirts), $5.75 (3-5
shirts). Email me at harmony(-at-)buszen.com to place
your order.  Upon ordering you can either paypal me
the money to harmony(-at-)buszen.com or you can snail mail
a check to:
John Baker
9921 State Route 132
Pleasant Plain, Ohio 45162 
Remember, all orders must be placed by November 8!!
ANd when placing your order, please include the
size, design ("line-up" OR "OVT Baywindow") color, and
ship to address!!  THERE WILL NO EXTRAS ORDERED, I
will only order what you all want to purchase.
There is also a small update to the graphic printed
on the shirt. The front graphic will be the same as
 last time (featuring a splitty, bay, vanagon, and EV
in formation OR the new OVT BAywindow graphic), but on
the back of the shirt will be printed: "Who Built That
Fire?!" as a special homage to our pyromaniac friend
Frank! You can see the design at this link:
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca/OVTshirt.html
Pmail me to place an order!




=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
