From: Wil Haslup <wil(-at-)charmfx.com>
To: vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 05 Nov 2003 19:56:04 -0400
Subject: I put my temp. sensor in, Now what?

Hi,

Well, having found my old temperature sensor to be way off spec I
thought I'd nailed my "won't idle cold - starts and quits" problem 
in my '80 air cooled.

...no such luck.  behavior is identical to what it was.

Starts cold and almost immediately quits.

Only electrical ignition component not recently replaced is condensor
but I would think that would create an intermittent problem and the
van will run if I keep my foot on the pedal until it gets warm.

I've checked the resistance specs on both the aux. air valve and the
AFM and they are within spec.  The new temp. sensor is where it should
be too.

I keep playing with the idle adjustment screw on the intake air plenum
but can't see it has any effect.

I'm wondering if the PO adjusted the air bypass screw while the rest
of things were off and now that they are on it needs adjustment with a
CO meter.

...I'm figuring 

the thermo time switch and coldstart valve are fine cause the thing
starts and revs up and then dies.

maybe the...

Decelerator Valve membrane is busted but would that do this?
if so, would the van run okay if the timing/dwell were off to
compensate?

As I said, I checked the resistance in the aux air valve and it is
within spec.  I also removed it and gumouted it to clean any dirt off
the valve opening.  The thing won't start at all with it disconnected
so I can't check it as described in Haynes.

I've replaced my fuel filter as part of general maintenance in all
this but don't think I created any problems there.

So what's left?  AFM faulty if the resistance readings are correct?
Oxygen sensor?

Getting a condensor now...we'll see.

Let me know if anyone has any bright ideas.  I'm definitely getting
fried thinking about it.


Sincerely,
-- 
--Wil


-- http://www.charmfx.com/ -- http://www.indieguide.com/ --

"If you write the word "monkey" a million times, do you start to think you're Shakespeare?"
-- Steven Wright
