Date: Thu, 6 Nov 2003 09:08:15 -0800
Cc: philipparker(-at-)warwickshire.gov.uk, type2(-at-)type2.com
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Running in a new engine

On Thursday, November 6, 2003, at 06:59  AM, Dave C. Bolen wrote:

> My opinion is to "set" the rings by accelerating normally up to about
> 35-40 then be in 4th gear and floor it until about 65.  I usually do 
> this
> several times, and if I can find a gentle hill to do it on, it is even
> better.   YMMV

Wilson's book on rebuilding VW engines has some break-in advice, too.  
Very similar to yours, but he says that you want to make sure to apply 
pressure to the rings in "both directions" (I always picture 
trapezoid-shaped rings in my mind when I imagine what "one direction" 
pressure would do :-)

He advises accelerating, then coasting.  I was not sure if "coasting" 
meant "gentle engine braking".  Certainly coasting with the engine idle 
doesn't seem like it would be very effective.  I've done a little of 
both (there are a couple of good hills near my house where I can gently 
engine brake in 2nd gear to the stop at the bottom).

In any case, I've been trying to follow the Wilson advice ... I'm about 
170 miles in on my new engine (I don't drive that much ... once to 
twice a week).  The trips I have taken in it:

	- Drove Bus home from shop after getting engine installed.
	  Berkeley -> San Francisco (normally 30 minute drive with
	  mix of surface street, freeway, and bridge driving) in
	  rush-hour traffic (a good way to vary one's speed :-)

	- Picked up sister-in-law at Oakland airport.  I was a little
	  unsure about this because it was all freeway driving, for the
	  most part, but she REALLY wanted to ride in the Bus.  I just
	  made sure to vary my speed on the freeway from 50-60 mph, and
	  took an early exit so I could use surface streets for a while
	  once I got close to the airport.  About a 30-40 minute drive
	  each way in the Bus.

	- 3 trips down to Ocean Beach in San Francisco.  I live 43 blocks
	  away from the beach, and it is flat go-go-go-stop-and-go to get
	  there.  (I think the Bus looks really cool parked at the beach
	  at sunset, and there's a great brewery/restaurant across the street
	  from the beach entrance whence I can admire it :-)

	- A few trips from my 'hood over to a co-worker's 'hood to meet for
	  lunch.  There is a really big hill between here and there, as
	  well as a couple of smaller ones.  On the way back to my place,
	  I am able to load the engine pretty well (about 35 mph in third
	  gear up a long, winding, moderate hill).

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/
