Date: Thu, 06 Nov 2003 13:22:15 -0800
To: Dave Rogge II <tgtsfkncld(-at-)att.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] vw mechanic's rates

At 09:12 AM 11/06/2003, you wrote:

>Hey.  I'm starting a little side business fixing cars on my college 
>campus.  There's a lot of VWs here, and so far those are the only cars 
>i've gotten calls about.  I know a lot of people on the list do work for 
>other people, and i was wondering what everyone charges for labor.  I have 
>a degree in Auto Mechanics, and I've always fixed my own buses.  I just 
>need a little help with rates.
>Anyone have any advice?

If you want clean profits from performing proper services do not violate 
any of the following rules.

1.) For basic maintenance and simple repairs, invest $10,000 in quality 
tools and equipment. Set them up in a nice VW van/bus for mobile services 
and save a bunch of overhead on a fixed local. Print up business cards. 
Register the business with the state and locals as required. Get the basic 
book work down at the get go. Set it up to plug straight into the Sch. C 
federal tax form for business. Do set up the required business insurance.

2.) Anticipate all monthly expenses that you will have to be in business, 
then divide by the number of hours you will bill. Double that figure and 
you will break even perhaps. Triple it and you just might make a clean 
profit, but only if your results are about 99% good. 2% reporting bad 
experiences with you is too much to stay in business very long.

3.) As to value to the clients, if I bill $74 per hour and do the work 
right and bill one hour, how long will it take you to insure the same good 
results?????? If that is 2 hours you won't be worth more than $36 per hour, 
which will never pay for the tools and manuals and insurance and gas and 
accounting and taxes and investment, much less leave any time for studies 
while going to school.

4.) Key is that you never agree to try to do something you are not certain 
you can do properly. Key also is that you lose no time at all re-doing 
things at your own cost by not getting good results the first time , ie, 
un-billable time lost.

5.) I will say again for emphasis, do not accept a single job without the 
commercial insurance in place. Just putting in a set of brake pads, then 
the vehicle is involved in an accident for any other reason, means a lawyer 
will look to any possible entity for damages. Even if your work was spec 
that can't stop you from being named in a suit. Being named, rightly or 
wrongly, will result in defense lawyer fees not less than $20,000. Just one 
loose wheel, forget to torque the lugs once, and as bad as wrongful death 
can liquidate your life.

6.) Consider going around and talking to the professional shops in the 
area. Tell them you want to learn the ins and outs of professional auto 
service and get hired as an apprentice. Tell them you can bring some VW 
work to the shop. It really does take at least 2 years under mentors with 
long experience to be at the division of apprentice to journeymen.

7.) Consider how you will handle this when it happens. You pull a spark 
plug and the threads come out because the last person there had it cross 
threaded. Since this was not an issue before you pulled it in the mind of 
the client, he think's you should pull the motor and head and fix it at 
your cost. Just think how you will handle this when it happens?? Know the 
answer before you start soliciting work of any kind.
