Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 14:54:14 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Dealer Microfische machine score!!

>From: "LilBlauWagen" <wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net>
>Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 02:02:16 -0700
>
>I am willing to try to scan most of this and add it to the out of print
>online documentation thing. We'll see how that goes.

You'll probably need a film scanner.  A regular flatbed scanner just
doesn't have the optical resolution.  The flatbed scanner will claim
some large number like 2400 dpi, but it will really be 300 to 600 dpi
optical, with the software interpolating (a fancy word for "making up")
the rest of the pixels.  This won't work for the film.  For example,
scanning an 8.5x11 (or nearest metric size) paper page at 200 dpi is
just about good enough for a parts manual.  If that's reduced 10:1, to
make an image 0.85"x1.1" on the film, you need a scanner that can do
2000 dpi optical.  If it's 20:1 (0.43"x0.55"), you need a scanner that
can do 4000 dpi optical.  These scanners are readily available from
Nikon and others, and they cost about a dollar per dpi.  If you are
thinking of getting a film scanner, make sure it can do sheets of
microfilm - some of them are only set up to do 35mm negatives and you'd
have to cut up the microfilm to get it to fit.

Another option, which I have never tried, might be to put the film in
the reader and then photograph the screen with a digital camera.  Before
digital oscilloscopes, this was done all the time with them to take
pictures of waveforms on the 'scope CRT.  Usually there was a hood that
went from the screen to the camera to keep out external light.  You have
to make sure the reader is in good focus and that your camera can focus
well on the screen.

>I guess the barndoor thru 67 one is already there so i dont have to do
>that one. Well actually when is the one online updated thru?

I'm not sure exactly.  It does have Supplements 34 through 37 applied
to it.  I get the impression that VW went to the microfilm in about '68,
and I'd guess that they probably didn't issue updates to the paper
manuals for too long after that.

Sometimes it's better to have earlier copies of parts manuals.  In the
later ones, more of the less commonly used parts are marked NLA and don't
show the part numbers.  This is OK if you only buy parts from VW, but if
you're trying to figure out what some part you bought at the swap meet is,
it doesn't help as much.

I'd suggest trying to scan the bay-window Bus parts book first, as I
don't think there's one of those available online.  Or, if you have
a non-Bus VW, scan the film for that so you can get some use out of it.
Don't scan any of the Porsche ones until one of the rich Porsche owners
offers a sufficient bribe.  :)

Matt Roberds
