Date: Sat, 3 May 2003 02:46:25 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: bus with ghia tranny hard to shift

>From: Matthew_Russell(-at-)ziba.com
>Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 09:39:57 -0700
>
>the bus i'm working on has a ghia tranny in it,

Does it have green fuzzy stuff all over it?  Oh, _G_hia, not _C_hia.

>it's really hard to tell where the shifter is, that is what gear your
>in or when you are in or out of a gear.

It can very easily be the linkage.  When I first got my Bus, 1st was OK,
2nd was OK, but when trying to go for 3rd, sometimes I got 3rd and
sometimes I got 1st again.  I was lying under the Bus one day waiting for
oil to drain and started idly poking at the accumulated crud under there.
In doing that, I noticed that the rear shift coupler bolts were safety-wired
to one another (instead of to the shaft) and that they were quite loose.
Tightening them up (and re-doing the safety wire) helped a lot.  Other
things to check include the front shift coupler and the plastic bushing
around the shaft right under the gear shift.  Taking out the gear shift
and greasing the ball-and-socket joint at its bottom end can also help.
You can also adjust the plate that goes between the gear shift and the
floor (it's got a rib on it for the reverse lockout) to change the way
your shifter works.  Also, look for beat up or split rubber blocks on
the transmission mounts.

You can replace the front coupler and bushing without pulling the
tranny, but if the rear coupler needs replacing I believe the tranny
has to come out.  You may have to pull the tranny out (or do most of
the steps for it, then just drop it down a bit) to replace the mounts.

Also try "shift coupler" as search words at
http://www.type2.com/archives/search-vintagebus.html , and look at
section H-9 of your Bentley manual.

>this bus doesn't have an engine yet, so now is the right time
>to check, fix and change if i have to, the tranny.

You can get the linkage dialed in pretty well, but don't be surprised
if it needs a bit more adjusting once you get the engine in.

Matt Roberds
