Date: Wed, 22 Jan 2003 20:07:18 -0600
From: Alex W <awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FI fuel pump failing?

Hi,
I'm thinking my fuel pump is on its last legs. Its a used bosch
FI pump.  I got a good deal on it and didn't want to invest the 
money in a new one untill I was sure I was going to stick with FI. 
(just did the swap from carb to FI)

OK, So I'm hearing a faint metallic sound coming from the fuel pump.  
Sounds like  err.. err.. errr.. er. err.... er.....  with no pattern 
in the frequency.  Also fuel pressure jumps around a bit when the 
RPM's are above idle speed.  For example at 3,400 RPM's the gauge 
swings down to 24psi at times, but stays around 26-27psi.  When I 
first checked the fuel pressure after installing the FI system, it 
was a little higher than spec but did not move so erratically. So I 
installed a new fuel pressure regulator to correct the non-spec 
pressure and everything was fine for a week.  Then when I hooked up 
the fuel pressure gauge a few days ago its was jumping all around at 
any rpm above idle speed.  I'd get readings that would varry around
a lot.  So I swapped out the new regulator for the old to test it and
see if this was the cause, doesn't appear to be. The pressure still
jumps around at any speed above idle, and they both used to give 
steady readings.

I have all new fuel injectors,  however I'm using a used cold start
valve. Fuel injectors don't appear to be clogged or sticking nice spray
pattern, and cold start test out fine, no leaks with fuel pump running
(pressure in the lines).  Return line from pressure regulator to tank 
not clogged, tested by running return line into gas can. Changed the
fuel filter, with a brand new one. Vacuum lines to pressure regulator
are tight and leak free, blocked of the vacuum hose to the pressure 
regulator and the gauge needle still sweeps in a ~4psi range 
33psi-37psi. Same results when engine is cold or warm.

Are these the signs of a dying bosch fuel pump?

Alex Wisniewski
'77 Riviera, 2L ('78 FI system)
