Date: Thu, 23 Jan 2003 13:12:38 -0500
From: Benoit Huot <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 main e-mail <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fire & Theft Insurance in Mexico (NONE!!!)

Hi VW brotherhood,

As I am leaving in 10 days for the southern USA and Mexico (well, not 
sure anymore about the last one!), I did some research and reading about 
entering, driving in Mexico, I have learned that American or Canadian 
insurance covering are not valid in Mexico??? Well OK, so I did some 
research and I was told / I found that it was quite easy to take a 
Mexican insurance, BUT!!!!!

I'm pissed!!! Only one insurance company as answered my inquiry about 
covering my bus against theft and fire, none will cover a vehicle older 
than 20 years!!! Here is the answer from www.bajabound.com

 >>>Dear Ben,

We regret to inform you that we cannot offer "full coverage" on your 
1973 Bus, as it is over 20 years old. This is a strict policy that 
cannot be negotiated. Should you still be travelling into Mexico and 
will need "liability coverage" only, we will be available to take your 
order here at Bajabound Insurance Services Inc.

Thanks for your time and understanding.
Sincerely,
Stefan Schermerhorn
Customer Service<<<

Ok, any advice on that matter? (my bus was evaluated at about $5500 USD 
and is fully covered for this amount in the USA & Canada)

Also, I now I need the "Tourist permit" (Permisio) and I think I also 
need a "import car permit", what else do i need??????????? My judicial 
files, the color of my underwear, the length of my wi$?%%$?%$&!!!!!
Am sorry to ask those questions here but you are the best reliable gang 
on the web!!!!! And I am sure that many of you guys did travel in 
Mexico...with your Bus!

I am surprise to see that it is somewhat complicated to drive and enter 
Mexico; I was thinking that the opposite would be difficult (coming back 
to the USA)

I traveled (driving) a lot in my life in other country and I am very 
surprise about all the fussy side of entering, driving and insurance 
stuff in Mexico.

If you can assure me that nobody will EVEN want to steal a 30 years old 
Bus, well, I will maybe take the chance of going there with only a 
liability coverage, but I don't like it at all!!!!

I don't want to start a thread about the pros & con of getting / driving 
over there so you can p-mail me with any advice you have!!!!
Sorry if this cannot be ask here!

This late news are very deceiving for me, its been month of 
preparation!!! We dont know what to do now!!!!

Well, I could transform my bus in a Brinks Truck and but anti thief 
lock everywhere. I DONT WANT TO HAVE MY BUS STOLEN!!! I have work a lot 
on it!!!

Best regards and thanks for any advice you can give, I need some!!!! Ben
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm
Ps.: I also had no reply / answer form either Boston Bob or AVP engine 
rebuilder as to how fast they can ship an engine and the availability of 
one!
