From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'bpierce(-at-)shaka.com'" <bpierce(-at-)shaka.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 24 Jan 2003 11:19:49 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] steering box

	Ahoy there, Bradley, List, et al!

	I second everything Greg hath writ (Hi, Greg!)...  plus check out
your swing lever bushing rig, drag link, steering damper, too.  You didn't
mention whether or not you checked on those...

	I have no direct, personal experience with a rebuilt '73-'79
steering box, and my limited understanding on those babies is that they are
not "really" rebuildable.  Mebbe, kinda, sorta the same way 914 rear
calipers are not "really" rebuildable, because the werks never offered an
official rebuild kit.  So far, the '73 I have laid a wrench to ("Hey! No
snickering in the back there!  That's not some perverted, feeeelthy
euphemism!") has not required any help in the Steering Department.  The
'73-'79 boxes are generally available new for very reasonable prices from
all the usual suspects, who will no doubt pipe up forthwith to hawk their
wares...

	A Cautionary Tale for them what pilots a '68-72 Bay:

	I finally ponied up the sheckels for a rebuilt steering box for my
'72 Weekender, from that most wonderful place that you-all know and love,
the one that starts with "bus" and ends with "boys"...  I did some serious
research into the subject, having shelled out the dollars for some of those
other less expensive rebuilts, and all paths lead to Redding as the place to
be...  One of those less expensive rebuilds failed after exactly one week in
service, and many, many of the individuals I have p-mail contact with
reported similiar (or worse) experiences.  Some of the vendors I contacted
simply no longer carry '68-'72 rebuilt boxes because of this, others carry
them at prices that range from good to "oh-mi-gosh!"...  Some folks report
good luck with used boxes, but frankly, the newest used box you're going to
find is now 31 years old.  My idea of a fun weekend afternoon does not
involve a cr*p-shoot, a tie rod puller, a two jaw puller, a heat source, a
BFH or two, Kroil, language most foul, a tub of anti-seize and a bag of
nylocks.  I have better things to do...  Caveat emptor!

	A joyous Friday to all!

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org         
