From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'eric(-at-)bradway.net'" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>, "'wfp3(-at-)lycos.com'"
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 24 Jan 2003 12:05:23 -0600
Subject: Weber Progressive - and more oil leaks

	Eric, Billy, List et al...

	I've wrastled with my share of mystery oil leaks on Type 4s over the
years, but never as many as in a Bay powered by Type 4.  Oh, I've prayed and
light candles to Our Lady of Hylomar, Sillycone, an' All The Various
Sealants, done penance to Our Lady of Perpetual Leakage, cussed, made
sacrifice and burnt offerings many a time, worn my sack-cloth and ashes, yet
those ding-d*ng impeller housing drips still appeared...  My further
observations must be tempered with the consideration that there are no fatal
oil galley plug leaks causing refined product distribution issues...

	Couple of things.  Type 4s inhale mass quantities of air via the
impeller; any oil ooze or drippage from a variety of  sources can and will
be inhaled, and then thoughtfully distributed throughout the motor.  I guess
those clever engineers figured that well-lubricated cylinder fins will
suffer less corrosion.  Once distributed, you'll go mad ("Mad, I say!)
trying to figure out where all that f*wkin' oil could possibly be coming
from...  The little bitty boot that seals the dip-stick tube interface can
be a source of oil, but not the kind that gets inhaled into the impeller
housing.  Unless you have removed tin or something to "improve" on the
system, in which cause you deserve all the trouble you get...

	One place that can provide the "oil-into-impeller experience" is the
rare and elusive dip stick gasket.  No gasket there will spill oil out the
top, particularly if you have any steep driveways you have to negotiate.
Don't AMHIK this...  Pull your dip-stick ("No, not that one!") and check
into the place where it seats on the tube.  Make one if yours is MIA -
gasket punches and cork gasket material will do the trick quite handily,
keep it in place with a dab of sillycone sealer.  I didn't check that spot
when I assembled the motor in the '73 and got it running again.  First
uphill run and there is oil all over that nice clean motor, in the heater
boxes, lubing the barrels...  I won't tell you how long it took to clear
about 2 quarts of oil from my '72 after I neglected to re-install the oil
cap one time...  I was have a bad weekend that weekend ;-)

	Which also reminds me - how is the oil cap seal, and how well sealed
is the plastic/metal interface on the filler tube?  I can't help you WRT the
Weber - they're beyond help on a Type 4...

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org    
