Date: Fri, 24 Jan 2003 13:19:06 -0500 (EST)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Weber Progressive - and more oil leaks

> 	One place that can provide the "oil-into-impeller experience" is the
> rare and elusive dip stick gasket.  No gasket there will spill oil out the
> top, particularly if you have any steep driveways you have to negotiate.
> Don't AMHIK this...  Pull your dip-stick ("No, not that one!") and check
> 	Which also reminds me - how is the oil cap seal, and how well sealed
> is the plastic/metal interface on the filler tube?  I can't help you WRT the
> Weber - they're beyond help on a Type 4...

Hmmm... You may be right here. When I first noticed the leak (after getting my
engine back in two weekends ago having replaced a rear-engine oil galley
plug), it appeared to be coming from around the dipstick/oil fill tube.

Add to the recent extreme temperatures resulting in two things (besides longer
warmups): 1. bigger gaps between metal parts, 2. slower, higher-RPM assents up
the hills (especially the last run to my house - up a 25% grade for about 1/2
mile starting at a dead stop at a light at the bottom of the hill). This
results in the engine tilted so the dipstick and oilfiller are relatively low
while the engine is running at higher-than-normal RPMs (because of the issues
with the Weber, I'm not able to get into second on this hill when the air temp
is below 20 degrees).

I'll check the dipstick and the oil fill. It's possible, too, that I pulled
the boot off the lower part of the dipstick tube (between the fanshroud) when
I was wrestling the engine back in. These I can do in the Arctic Chill this
weekend (hey, we're up to 23 degrees! It's down-right balmy out now!).

-Eric

P.S. Another thing I found is that my Coleman PowerCat heater is not very good
at temps below 20 degrees. Sure, it heats, but the condensation on the inside
of the windshield is too dangerous - especially since it tends to freeze and
can't be wiped off! So, I'll be looking for an alternate heat source for next
winter...
-- 
www.yogabus.com                  '74 Westy 'Portia'
