From: "Phil Parker" <phil(-at-)pagenumberone.co.uk>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Sep 2007 21:11:35 +0100
Subject: Re: [T2] Rust protection device - Snake oil or the fountain of

I doubt any car manufacturer wants their vehicles to get much past the 
warranty stage before disintegration occurs nowadays. Most of the punters 
don't either since it gives them the excuse to buy a new shiny vehicle - 
it's only idiots like us who care !

Anyway, I did quiz the vendor a bit and can fill in details that I've been 
reminded of thanks to this discussion.
- The "charge" is carried around by the paint on the body. This apparently 
replaces the water that carries this when the anode system is used on a 
boat.
- There probably won't be a charge in the metal as the "sensors" (duff 
phrase if there ever was one) don't actually touch the metal as they are 
stuck on the surface. Apparently they transfer the effect through pulses of 
some sort. My understanding was this was a sort of high frequency system, 
hence no shorting out. Huge voltages but low currents are involved.

If I was looking to rig up some sort of test of this device, how would I go 
about it ? I'm thinking connecting it to a sheet of steel and leave it 
outside for the winter ought to do the job. I haven't bought anything yet 
but wonder if I can persuade someone to let me review it....

Phil
----- Original Message ----- 
From: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>

If this worked every car manufactuerer would be installing it.

The idea is suspicious on its face.  The claim is that the system provides
free electrons on the outer surface of the car.  Physics types call that
"having a negative charge".  One of the laws of physics is the
conservation of charge.  Those "free electons" have to come from somewhere
and that place has to be outside the car.  I don't think tht anything
internal to the car could charge the outer surface of the car.

I'd love to get close to this demo car with an electrometer and actually
measure the surface charge.
