Date: Thu, 13 Sep 2007 06:03:14 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: enrichment via cold start valve switch

--- Michael Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net> wrote:


The EGR port is a perfect place to add another CSV.
I wired 2 variable resistors (potentiometers) into the
temp sensor circuit. I experimented with that quite
extensively. One problem I had was turning the knob -
when exiting from the freeway I couldn't turn it fast
enough, and when cranking back up I never knew exactly
where I was until after a few miles of driving. The
second pot was for tuning in a baseline which changed
from season to season. Eventually I used a slide pot
and from then on it was all so easy. With the slide
pot (like a balance lever on a stereo - but linear -
stereos use a different "audio taper") I never had to
look at it. I was able to just reach down and adjust
it totally by feel. I had it tuned so normal freeway
driving it was just past half way.

I also used a CB mixture gauge with an oxygen sensor
mounted in the #3 cylinder header pipe about 2" from
the exhaust port. (another complete chapter on that
alone!) ...and of course I had the quad CHT gauge
which I strongly believe should be a basic gauge on
any aircooled VW FI engine.

I had the slide pot and the CSV button where I could
easily thumb the button while adjusting the slide pot
- usually to full rich while I had my right foot to
the floor. Speeds of -the speedometer needle hitting
the zero stop after going past bottom! - were fairly
easily attained.

{2 liter with 96mm jugs and 10.92:1 compression ratio}
I have more details if you're interested. If you do a
Google search of RAMVA (rec.autos.maker.vw.aircooled)
newsgroup and put busahaulic and FI or fuel mixture as
search parameters, you'll find a lot more. -BaH

 Hmmm, guess one could use an extra CSV to inject
 nearly anything into 
 the mix, like water or ether?
 
 Can't you put in an inline resistor to fool the ECU
 into thinking it's 
 colder and thus enrich the mix in a controlled
 fashion??  I envision an 
 inline digital ohmeter where you could dial this on
 a variable resistor 
 (potentiometer).
 
 Busahaulic wrote:
 


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
