From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 13 Jan 2003 12:17:41 -0600
Subject: "Save The Bays!" at BBB-VII

	Hey all!

	Due to last minute mechanical issues (installing a Bus Boys steering
box on the '72, and buttoning up my 2260 T4), I wasn't able to post this any
earlier, but High Command here at "STBs Central" wishes to extend
encouragement to all West Coast and SoCal listees to attend BBB-VII at Lake
Havasu, AZ this coming weekend...

	The STBs entourage will be leaving from the North San Fernando
Valley fairly early Friday morning and travelling out the 14/138 around the
Mojave desert side of the San Gabriel mountains.  A breakfast break is
scheduled for The Pines Cafe on the 138 (Pearblossom Hwy in Little Rock a
little west of Four Corners) and ultimately picking up the I-15 at
Victorville.  From there we will be heading north on I-15 to Barstow and
then out I-40 to points east.  Mike Visket and myself will be on GMRS/FRS
Channel 2 for short range communications, all fellow travelers are
encouraged to use the "little" radios for short range group communications
(but leave off the sub-channels, m'kay?).  We are all packing different
brands of GMRS/FRS, and if you are using the sub-channels, communications
will be one-sided at best.  If George Lyle is travelling with us, he will no
doubt have some kind of double-secret, high-tech mega-serious radio gear and
will be able to contact bay pilots driving UFOs in from the orbit of the
moon...  George - feel free to chime in here on map routes, directions,
and/or radio specifics :-) 

	Just in case visual contact is made, I will be at the helm of my
taxicab yellow '72 Westy Weekender picking up the rear, Mike in his white
'69 poptop Westy "Itch", George will (no doubt) be on point position in his
green/white '71 radio controlled Deluxe...

	See everyone there!  Stop by and visit us, pick up an STBs sticker,
and get ready to just have a fun weekend at Lake Havasu!

	Jim Hayden
	Vice-Minister of Agit-Prop, Type4 Power Wing Commandant
	www.savethebays.org
