From: "Dave Wolfanger" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <modifiedBEARS(-at-)aol.com>
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 2003 19:53:46 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 battery drain

nathaniel wrote-
Sent: Tuesday, January 14, 2003 7:19 PM
Subject: [T2] '78 battery drain


> hey,
>   i'm not very knowledgeable so please any response dumb it down as much
as possible. i got a '78 automatic transporter with fuel injection. 2 days
ago i go out to it and it won't start. just makes this clicking kinda noise.
so i get this jumper pack i have and hook it up then it starts fine. i take
the battery to autozone to have it checked. they say it's fine and recharge
it, then this morning i go out and it doesn't start so i have to hook up the
jumper pack again. it starts fine. i take it to my local vw shop and they
tell me it's the starter. i just don't understand how it could be the
starter when it starts fine once i have something to jump it?

nathaniel-
You may not be as dumb as you look :)
Unfortunately, they conceal the information
you are looking for in books ( Muir, Bentley, etc.)
The starter malfunction is real popular on this list,
so additional info is concealed in the library/archives.
Start with cleaning electrical terminals at the battery
( remove, scrape, replace ). Leave the battery hot terminal
disconnected until you do the same to the terminals
at the starter, and the braided wire ground at the front of
the transaxle. You could also remove the starter and
disassemble it to clean the electrical connections inside,
or follow the more popular solution, toss it and buy another.
A wiring diagram will display the entire electrical path,
including the ignition switch. Go to www.vintagebus.com
A popular modification involves the installation of a relay
to route a more direct path for the starter solenoid current,
using the long original ignition switch electrical path for relay signal
only,
current is supplied to the starter solenoid when the relay closes.
Reconnect hot wire at the battery.
It looks like you have high resistance to battery power through
corroded terminals. The clicking noise is the solenoid, it is
working but not getting enough current to activate the starter.
Dave \X/
