From: "aircooled chris" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: ratwell(-at-)mac.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 2003 19:04:48 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] pushrod tube seals uh oh

Usually they require a bit of a tap to go in (being careful not to cut them 
on the case and head metal edges.  Can  you describe how the installation 
went in more detail?

Well, I know that on one of them I had to back it out because I could see it 
was pinched against the head, like the seal was too big... I took an old 
pushrod and used it to tap the existing ones tight up against the head...

>The brown viton seals I used were pretty hard and didn't get dinged.  They 
>required a bit of stretching to get onto the tubes.  The orange seals on 
>the head end of the tube were soft and the black seals on the case end of 
>the tube were so hard they wouldn't stretch at all and I had a tough time 
>cutting them off.
>
>What did you use?

I got those porsche seals, I guess Viton, but mine seemed more pink or grey 
colored to me. (im color blind though)

anyway, the old ones were a pain to get off. I took a wire snippers to them, 
and still had trouble, mostly trying to get the snippers in that little 
groove.

I washed the gunk out of the little channels, and put the new seals on. They 
were all very easy to get on, and seemed much more loose than the originals, 
which I attributed to my removing all that gunk.

I cleaned the area up against the head with a clean rag, then popped them 
back into place. It took a little tapping to get them nice and tight against 
the head, but they seemed to seat ok. I put a little oil on them before 
installing them again, just to help seal. Not sure if that helps or not...

So, maybe a seal is bad, or maybe one of them just isnt tight enough up 
against the head, i dont know. Do I need to worry about the pushrod tubes 
themselves, and what may happen if I put little dings in them when 
installing/uninstalling?

Thanks for any tips, suggestions, or Tomfoolery...

Christopher
