From: "colleen and brian" <cparsley(-at-)telus.net>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Jan 2003 07:31:59 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] BN4

Thanks so much
I did indeed ivestigate your theory but the thermo switch(says manual)
turned out to be operating as designed but through troubleshooting this I
wiggled one of the wires that goes to the temp switch on the air outlet(
inside gas tank compartment)and heard the relay for the fuel pump jump in
and out.
I reached in there to find that one of these wires was loose, hence keeping
fuel pump from starting second cycle. ( the proverbial loose wire)
Peace
Brian
72 custom camper
Nanaimo BC
----- Original Message -----
From: <vwbusman215(-at-)aol.com>
To: ""colleen and brian"" <cparsley(-at-)telus.net>
Sent: Tuesday, January 14, 2003 2:06 PM
Subject: Re: [T2] BN4


> Brian,
> that is exactly what my heater was doing. I just finished tinkering with
it last night. there is black thing with two or three wires running to it on
the front of the heater body. You with me? I forgot the name of the black
thing, maybe the flame switch? if you hold or stand behind the heater so
that you are looking directly at the fan and the outgoing air duct is
opposite you then you look at the very farthest black thing with wires
running to it. It should be on the other side of the safety switch. there is
a screw that you can adjust this with, it is on the right side of the black
thing, just a single screw. When you start your heater it should run for a
minute or so and then you should hear the rpm's increase when the glow plug
shuts down. Mine was running and heating for one cycle but the rpm never
increased. turn on the heater and once it is firing adjust the screw out,
you should hear the rpm increase at some point. I found out last night that
if you go too far out with the adjustment if affects the cool down time of
the heater. When you get it to run and cycle on and off and all that jazz
then when you turn the switch off the fan should cont to run for a bit, if
you adj the screw out too far the fan doesn't quit running. This probably is
really confusing and I could explain it to you much easier on the phone. I
free long distance so if you want to call me and then I can call you right
back that will be cool. I probably won't be checking my email later so that
is why I say call and I can call you right back. If you want to call me feel
free to anytime today. I have taken today off work and it is soley a "work
on the bus" day. My number is 806-441-7722. Please call me if this doesn't
help, I don't my helping in anyway I can
>
> Casey
