From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2002 11:15:30 -0400
Subject: Re: [VB] Was Bus Engines, Now More Cooling

Ditto what George Lyle has already said.

The head temp and oil temp are not the same at all.  Totally independent
readings.

Granted from what I have heard 350F for a head temp is not bad.  I would
start to get worried if it approached 400F.  Bill Fisher comments on this in
his VW engine book, I think the Corvair Spyder Turbo had an acceptable head
temp up to 500+F!  Granted Bill did not specify what type of sensor was
being used.

Has anyone used a sensor like in the FI bay T4 engines?  Just kind of tap
the aluminum head and thread that type of sensor in?  Seems to be a better
solution than the under #3 plug in my outlook.

I really cannot explain how Eric got a temp drop from the doghouse exit
tinware modification, but do not doubt his results either.  There is only a
"mouse fart" (stealing a quote) of air flow that goes through the doghouse
cooler.

What should help is a couple things, search the archives for details:
1. Oil sump.  Normally 1.5 extra quarts.  Berg claims it is for oil
starvation only, but it does help cool the oil a bit as well.

2. T4 oil cooler.  Big cooler, but the tinware needs modified.

3. T3 oil cooler.  Ronnie's favorite, apparently same fin surface area as
the T4 w/o tin modifications.

4. 912/356 Generator pulley.  Not sure if this will work on an alternator?
You better weld the fan to avoid explosions!

5. 25/36HP crank pulley.  Looked at it last night and the offset seems the
same so it should bolt right on.  Probably hard to find? (It is hard to find
where I am at least)  I will probably yank it off the 25/36 motor I have
collecting dust and see how it works in a few weeks.  

6. The right grade of oil.  No 5/10W-30 stuff!  I like straight 30 or
20W-50, really hot area people like straight 40.

7. Check those engine seals and tinware.  Probably the easiest and most
overlooked part of cooling.

8. Slow down.  Very effective, but most people hate the inconvenience :)

9. Add an external oil cooler.  Granted you really should have a full flow
oil system to do this.  Also in my opinion it is a must to have an oil flow
temperature switch so you do not cool cold oil, they are about $40 at many
speed shops...  I found a really cool oil cooler from a Volvo 740 that I
plan on using in the future, $8 at pull-a-part.  Also the Audi cars use a
remote doghouse cooler that is well documented in the T2 Library, you could
also hang a T4 cooler from it.  I do not think a fan is necessary.  Also try
and use metal lines where you can so they can help cool the oil as it flows,
normal SS braided and rubber hose is horrible at dissipating heat.

Just a few thoughts :)


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 


 

 

