Date: Wed, 21 Aug 2002 13:16:30 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Was Bus Engines, Now More Cooling

>From: "Steve Iverson" <iverson(-at-)914-6.com>
>Date: Tue, 20 Aug 2002 20:58:34 -0700
>
>Hi - I sent this to the Porsche 356, but I thought I'd try you guys too
>since it's all the same...

OK, but a note will be made in your karma (busma?) account.  You have
to stop sometime for a crusty broken-down VW and tow them to safety
with the 356...

>I added a stereo amplifier and upgraded my headlights to 55W/100W and
>driving lights to 80W.

I don't know what the stock headlights are but I'm guessing they are
on the order of 45/55W.  So, you added 20 W of headlights ( 90 W if
you drive with the high beams on a lot), 80 W of driving lights, and
maybe 120 W of amplifier.  That's 220 W or 18.3 A (-at-) 12 V for just
the new stuff.  That leaves just 11.7 A (-at-) 12 V for the rest of the
lights, ignition, radio, etc which isn't enough.

>1. Can I (did I) damage components by trying to pull too many amps?
>I.e. Can one "burn out" the generator by asking too much of it?

Yes.  The generator/regulator will "die trying" to keep the system
voltage above some minimum level.  Your headlights will be a little
dim, compared to a low-load condition, but it might not be enough
to easily notice.

One way to think of it is that your battery is a bucket, the generator
is a water pump, the regulator is a float switch on the bucket, and all
the electrical devices in your car are holes in the bucket.  At the
beginning of the world, the bucket is full.  When you start the engine,
you open up one of the big holes and let about a third of the water out
of the bucket.  Then you close the hole back up.  You now have a small
hole open for the ignition and so on, but the generator can pump water
in faster than you can drain it out the bottom.  Pretty soon, the bucket
will fill up, the float switch will close, and the generator will only
be pumping enough water to make up for what you're draining out the
bottom.

When you add more load, it's like knocking more big holes in the bucket.
After a while, you are draining water faster than the generator can pump
it in.  Since the bucket never gets full, the float switch never closes
and the generator thinks it needs to keep pumping as hard as it can.
After a while, the generator will kill itself trying to pump enough water
to keep the bucket full.

>2. I found a company (Ace Alternator; http://www.acealternator.com/home)
>that claims to be able to upgrade this generator to about 80 amps. Does
>anyone have any experience with this?

No experience.  I don't know what they do to the generator, but it seems
unlikely to me that a generator can be rewound to deliver over twice its
original output.  You might ask what the brush life is like on one of
their modified generators.

Note that a stock VW/Bosch alternator can give you 55+ amps.  I don't
know about the logistics of fitting one to a Porsche engine but I'm sure
it can be done.  I believe the VW alternators are 105 mm diameter, as
opposed to the early generators which are 90 mm diameter.  A later
Porsche alternator should give you similar output and may be easier to
install.

>3. If I upgrade the generator to higher output, do other components need
>to be upgraded as well? Voltage regulator? Anything else?

The voltage regulator and generator work together as a pair.  You should
always install a voltage regulator to match your generator.

You might check the main generator output wire - usually a heavy red
wire going from a bolt on the generator to either the battery or the
battery cable at the starter.  If it's not in perfect condition, replace
it with at least the same gauge wire and maybe one gauge heavier.

>4. (bonus question) I'm just curious, what's the difference between an
>alternator and generator? What do I have? Everything 914 is "alternator",
>everything 356 seems to be "generator".

When you spin a coil of wire in a magnetic field, you will get alternating
current, AC.  To run a car's electrical system, you need direct current,
DC.  Alternators and generators differ in what is spinning and the way the
AC is changed to DC.

The most obvious way to get a magnetic field is to use a permanent magnet.
Spin a coil of wire in the magnetic field and you make electricity (or
put electricity to the coil of wire to make spin.)  The problem is that
the voltage will depend on how fast you spin the wire.  If you can
regulate the speed of the spin, then you're OK, but in a car you can't
do this - you get whatever the engine is giving you at some point in time.

In order to be able to regulate the output, you use an electromagnet
instead of a permanent magnet for the field.  You can vary the strength
of the field by adjusting how much current you put into the electromagnet
and this is the job of the voltage regulator.  The regulator is always
looking at the system voltage.  If the system voltage is above some
limit, the regulator sends less current into the field coils to reduce
the generator output.  If the system voltage is below some limit, the
regulator sends more current into the field coils to increase the
generator output.

In a generator, the field coils are stationary and the generating coils
spin.  The AC coming from the generating coils is mechanically rectified
into DC.  The commutator (thing the brushes ride on) is a switch that
reverses the connections to the generating coils as they spin.  This
ensures that the voltage coming out of the generator is the same polarity
all the time.  It's very simple, but prone to brush wear as the segment
of the commutator pass under the brushes.  Also, there is a minimum
width on the segments, which tends to limit the amount of current that
can be drawn through the brushes and hence the generator output.

In an alternator, the generating coils are stationary and the field
coils spin.  The AC coming from the generating coils is electronically
rectified into DC.  This is done by silicon diodes, which are one-way
valves for electricity.  They do the same thing electronically that
the commutator and brushes in a generator do mechanically.  An
alternator also has two brushes, but they each ride on their own
slip ring - a continous ring of metal, not segmented like a generator
commutator.  These brushes deliver the current to the spinning field
coil.  Since the ring is continuous, and the current is much lower
(maybe 10 times less) than the main output current, these brushes
last much longer.  An alternator can be built to deliver more current
than a generator for the same field excitation and mechanical power
input.  They weren't really practical until the mid-1960s or so,
when high-current silicon diodes got cheap enough to use in cars.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


