Date: Mon, 6 Nov 2006 17:20:44 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] To Sipe or not to Sipe? (Tony)

Busahaulic inquired:

>WTH is Burt Monro ?

	That may serve as an excuse for me to
expatiate on a great countryman of mine:



		'The World's Fastest Indian'

			reviewed by Robt Mann


	My wife  -  not a cycles fan  -  and I
attended the Auckland premiere after many years
of anticipation.  We found it well worthwhile.
But as a Munro fan I cannot say the movie is as
good as it could reasonably have been.
	It is puzzling that Roger Donaldson fails
to convey key facts which could readily have been
told. Munro was the King of the File e.g in
making his own pistons and also con-rods.
Piston-casting is represented as using a
reasonably formal mold, whereas the usual story
is 'in discarded jam tins'.  Even more important,
perhaps, would have been to put in the mouth of
some person in the film something along the lines
of "he has no relevant education, theory,
formulae  -  it's just formidable intuition,
expressed by remorseless dedication on the slogan
'suck it and see' ".
	Knowing & caring little for entertainment
as against history, I am at a loss to understand
why Donaldson mis-states some factual aspects.
For instance, Munro did not crash on his first
run at Bonneville; he completed a proper pair of
runs, averaging 178 mph.
	Why not specify the exact classes in
which he held records?  The persistent vague
phrase 'land speed record', in not only the (very
adroit) media publicity but also the film itself,
is hard to justify.  The category of record
asserted at the end of the film to be still held
is, I fear, a furphy.  He took enough real
records in actual classes; why not state them
accurately?
	Other classes of racing in which Munro
did well, e.g hill-climbs, before he narrowed
down to just flat-out speed, could easily have
been mentioned.  The gasifier he created to run
his employer's Speed Twin on coke, to save petrol
during WW II, would have been easy to mock up - a
photo of it exists.
	The replica(s) of the Special, made by
(ex-?) Britten Corp staff, looks impressive but
wouldn't some apparent fuel tank be desirable?
	Munro's world's fastest Velocette (135
mph) could at least have been shown in passing.
It would have been world-famous if not in the
shadow of the Special.

	The adventures on the first trip to
Bonneville, recounted by Burt himself in one of
his few written contributions, could have been
shown more fully.  His use of open doors on the
Nash Rambler (not Chev) junker as 'air brakes' on
long downgrades would seem plenty photogenic, no?
-  why not show this intriguing method of speed
control?  Or are we to believe Hollywood
restrained itself for fear of copycat crimes?!?
	The 'competition licence test' before
being permitted to run at Bonneville was actually
more impressive than portrayed in the film.
Officious Yanks, thinking Burt a nutter and
supposing the sickle could not do much more than
its original 60 mph, sent him off to one side
from the smooth speed strip, over salt which they
knew to be bumpy.  Within seconds they were
bucking along behind him at 60 mph in their
hot-rod automobile, staggered that he could stay
upright on his 'museum piece' over such rough
going; they quickly concluded he would not crash
if allowed to run on the smooth marked strip, and
tried o wave him in.  Then a great rooster-tail
of salt erupted from the rear wheel of the
Indian, and he disappeared off into the heat
haze.  They gave up and turned back to their HQ
convinced they would certainly have, after all,
to let him run on the marked strip.  He came back
around in a huge loop, and arrived cursing them
out for hanging back so long  -  his plugs had
been oiling up!

	The criticism that the movie neglects
Burt's family life has little force; it's a 2-h
movie, with little 'fat', so I see little scope
for this dimension of 'human interest'.  And it
may well be that his family discouraged such
exposis.
	It is surprising that top actor Hopkins
couldn't imitate a Kiwi accent better.  Time &
again he sounds like a lower-class Pom.

	Munro was to motorcycling what Richard
Pearse was to powered flight  -  a native Kiwi
genius all the more dazzling for being untutored.
After decades of preparation, the filmscript
should have been better.  My wife liked the film
but says "he didn't come across as a genius".
Well he was, and Donaldson could have shown it.

=====
	Since the movie came out, a good account
of Munro has appeared: T Hanna, 'One Good Run'
(Penguin).

R
