Date: Mon, 6 Nov 2006 04:41:06 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] 76 brake problems...

ok so my right rear(pass) cylinder was bad and i replaced it yesterday.... should have been easy fix right...?
   
  so i didnt take any of the brake parts apart when doing the cylinder ... just loosened up stars and eased the cylinder out and the new on back in.... hooked everything up brake line etc and put hub back together...
   
  went to bleed the brakes and got the normal bubbles but it went on forever.... so switched to other back tire(drivers rear) and couldnt get any brake fluid through it aT alll and finally some decided to come through...
   
  many many bubbles.... got through that and thought i was done... adjusted both back tires (stars) and thought i was done....  
  got up in cab and checked ebrake and it only comes out 3-4 clicks at most and is tight again butttttttttttttttttttttttt my pedal goes to the floor and from there....
   
   
  i thought well maybe its air in the line....?
   
  sooooooo i started to bleed pass back side tire again... and its got many many air bubbles in it.....
   cant seem to get them out.... 
   
  MY THOUghts....   )i have a broken metal line    ???? maybe on the one i changed the cylinder on...?
   
  i looked and looked though and dont see any fluid coming out of the line but i may have missed it....??
   
  the jar i am using for bleeding is getting plenty full and going through some brake fluid....?
   
  butttttt i cant get the pedal to tighten up....??
   
   
  advice here...?
   
  i am going out today once warm and going to check the metal brake lines for leaks again...?
   
  for the record i have brand new rubber brake hoses.... but trhe metal lines still need repalcing....
   
  i dont think it is the master cylinder..?????????  
   
  seems like i just went through these same symtoms on the wifes beetle and ended up being a small hole in the metal line.... used a fitting to repair that... wondering if i can do the same thing for this if indeed is metal brake line .....??
   
  tilll i can get some new metal brake lines....?
   
   
  anyone.... here.... think this sounds like a metal line has a pin hole in it or something..?
   
  whats the true trick to finding out if this is the problem...?
  i gotta get this fixed today... i am outta work because of it... dont have transportation to get to work now.. and back home...??
   
  thanks in advance...
  chai


                                                                Better start thinking about sealing up those windows and leaky doors....
  Winter months are on there way,dont forget to break out the heater and Lets Go CamPing~!
