Date: Thu, 27 Feb 2003 12:41:26 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Petewalling(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 78t2 refer

>while looking around at a local junk yards selection of vw's i found a t2
>refer that looks in good shape. my t2 only has a ice box. would it be worth
>putting it in my t2 and would it fit. also what sources are there for looking
>at stock westy t2 interiors.

The fridge units have several things that go bad. The thermostats, the 
heater elements, and the amonia gas w/? in it tends to gel up and stop 
flowing. The first two are replaceable, the last involves laying the coils 
outside in the summer sun or some gentle heat to get it flowing again. That 
is wrong with mine right now.

They work but on battery power they run full speed until the battery dies. 
On 120 VAC they run according to your thermostat setting.

Anyone know why they run at full cool when on DC? Would it hurt to fix it 
so it cycles on DC? Might make the battery last longer when coupled to two 
75 W solar panels on the roof.

I'm told Pete that you should freeze the fridge the night before you travel 
and fill it with pre-cooled items. They will make ice cubes also I'm told 
given enough time.

I'd like to add a drain to mine so I can fill it with ice and let it drain 
under the bus. I have filled mine with ice before and then used a shop vac 
to suck out the water.

Lastly the company (Dometic) is still in business.

Check out the Type2 library for more info. The owner's manuals and such are 
online if you look around at enthusiast's pages.

As for pics go to Google and type in Westfalia or Westy and then click on 
images and start surfing. Seems to me like the folks most proud to show off 
their Westy with a homepage are the ones that have some great info to share 
as well.

I have some PDF files I can share with you if you need them.

I also have a '78 Westy.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
