From: "El Senor Capitan" <whistlingtin(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 28 Feb 2003 09:41:32 -0800
Subject: [T2]Optima Batteries (A (Simplified) Deep Cycle Primer)

Hey there-

My love (wife, not bus) and I  live on, and have travelled around the
pacific in our sailboat, relying entirely on battery power for all of our
electrical needs. This includes some fairly power hungry things like a
de-salinator, radar, computer, ect.  Having a sustainable solar, or in this
case, engine charged system to power all of your needs is not difficult, but
to have it work well does require some forethought. This bit of work now
will pay great dividends in cold beer, movies to watch, light to read by,
music to listen to, whenever you want for years to come!

I would recommend starting from the other end: What are you intending to run
from your batteries in amp/hours (or watt/hours)? How many hours per day for
each item? How many days do you want to be parked without charging? Some
simple planning and arithmetic will give you an idea how many amp/hours (or
watt/hours) you need. Appliances generally list their power consumption on a
label, or in the manual. If you get stuck, pmail me and I have an
approximate power consumption for general items.

Once you have a number in mind,  you can look at how large a battery bank
you need. One of the "universal" truths about deep cycle batteries is that
the deeper you discharge them in each discharge/charge cycle, the fewer
cycles the battery will last. For this reason, it is generally recommended
that your battery bank be at least double your intended amp/hour draw per
cycle to have a reasonable life expectancy. (Ie: A 50 amp/hour battery has
about 25 usable amp/hours)

As far as selecting the type of battery, there are pros and cons to each:

The sealed lead acid "Power Pack" styled batteries have the advantage of
being cheap, though they are generally of low quality, and of low amp/hours,
both leading to premature failure if they are used heavily. If you want
something to run your computer for an hour or so, a few times a year, and
are on a budget, they might make sense.

Good quality flooded, or wet cell deep cycle batteries have the advantage of
being reasonably priced, and durable (as the electrolyte can be replaced if
you accidentally over charge). They are not as sensitive to charging voltage
as other types. They weigh less per amp/hour than the other types. They do
self-discharge more than other types (6-7%/month), and give off (explosive)
hydrogen gas while charging (just insure you have proper venting). Tying
together two 6 volt "Golf Cart" batteries in series (to make 12v) is often
an economical, and very durable system.

Gel Cells are the next rung up on the price ladder. They are
maintenance-free, cannot spill, don't gas off during charging, and have long
life expectancies. We are running a large bank of Gels as our main bank on
the boat with great success. On the down side, they are very sensitive to
charging voltage, requiring a lower voltage than Flooded or AGM batteries.
This means that if you go gel for your "house" bank (that runs your fridge,
lights, ect.), you also need a gel starting battery, and the ability to turn
down the voltage output of your alternator.

AGMs, like the Optima, are generally at the top of price ladder, costing
about double what flooded batteries cost. They have the advantages of gel,
but are not as sensitive, making them IMHO a better candidate for automotive
camper use.  They are generally larger and heavier than flooded
batteries/amp hour, though with the spiral cell technology of the Optima,
this is not always true. They can also be mounted at any angle, so you can
be a bit more creative with their placement.

Converting your 12v dc into 120v ac to run some of your household items can
be as simple as plugging a $30 inverter into your cigarette lighter, or as
complicated, and expensive as you want to make it. Just insure that whatever
you choose, it has sufficient continuous output (not peak!) for your
intended use. Beware though, that some electronics (computer printers, some
TVs, for example), may not run on cheap Square-Wave inverters.

The above is a bit simplified, just to get you thinking, and give you a base
to start from. Hope it helps!

Cheers,
Matthew
