Date: Fri, 28 Feb 2003 21:22:45 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: What is this-Is it a compressor??

>From: "Dave Wolfanger" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>
>Date: Fri, 28 Feb 2003 18:24:16 -0500
>
>Forward for your amusement.
> http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/pix/117263.jpg

Here's my theories.

I don't think this has anything to do with making the Bug it's attached
to move.  I think the Bug is just being used as a handy mounting bracket.

I'm pretty sure the engine is set up as a compressor.  The main things
I can't find are the valves and the exhaust ports.  I guess the valves
could be something like reed valves in the tops of the cylinders, or
in the intake and exhaust pipes where they attach to the cylinder.
The exhausts probably go out the bottom of each cylinder and join back
together underneath.

I have no idea what the thing in the distributor's spot is.  The top
part of it looks kinda-sorta like an air filter housing on some Briggs
and Stratton engines - maybe it's a crankcase breather?  (But I think
it'd be a lot easier to plumb a breather into the oil fill spout.)

I can't read the legend on the gauge at the left, but I think it's for
oil pressure.  There seems to be a thin line coming out of it, over
#3 and #4, and turning towards the crankcase at about the place the
oil pressure light switch would be.

The compressor needs something to turn it and I think it has an electric
motor where the transmission used to be.  Or, maybe they left the
transmission in it and this is set up as a trailer, for mobile compressed
air while the trailer is moving.  But I think it has an electric motor.
I don't think it's using a stock starter motor - I'm pretty sure a
stock starter motor wouldn't have enough horsepower and wouldn't stand
up to the long duty cycles of a compressor.

The two brown objects above the center of the engine and the one silver
one to the right look like heat sinks.  The things on the heat sinks
appear to be three-terminal devices like SCRs or TRIACs.  The tubular
object below the right silver heat sink looks like a capacitor of the
kind used in motor start applications - maybe a few tens of uF at a
few hundred volts AC.  The picture isn't too clear, but the thing
hanging from the right side of the "intake manifold" appears to be a
pair of these capacitors.  There are also four smaller capacitors (?)
below the silver heat sink, and a power resistor on the right end of
the mounting plate for the two brown heat sinks.

Since the "big" components appear to come in threes, I'm going to say
that the electric motor runs on 3-phase AC.  I think the components are
some kind of speed control for the motor, or possibly a way to run a
motor on a higher voltage than it is rated for.  They could even be
part of a really elaborate pressure switch to turn the motor on and
off according to the air demand, but there are much simpler and cheaper
ways to do that.

Another theory is that this is a compressed-air motor.  The compressed
air comes in the bottom of the cylinders, and the air filter in the
picture is actually a muffler for the exhaust.  The compressed air
could come from a tank, or maybe a compressor attached to an electric
motor.  The "distributor" could be switching solenoid inlet valves
(not visible in the picture) to each cylinder at the right times.

I found the ad that goes with the picture but it doesn't give much
additional info.  A picture underneath the car, where the transmission
would normally be, would probably help.  It also would help to trace
out the heavy wires to see if they go somewhere else in the car, or
to a cord and plug, or what.

Bus content: Whatever it is, there would have been a lot more room for
the extra goodies in a Bus engine compartment.  And if it is a mobile
compressed air trailer, the Bus gearing and RGBs would spin the
compressor faster than Bug gearing.

What do we win if we guess right?

Matt Roberds
