Date: Sat, 11 Aug 2001 01:01:24 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>,  <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: George's Summer Vacation [trip report]

George's Abbreviated Summer Vacation

or: Oh What a Short Trip It's Been.

My family normally likes to take a long trip from our home base in SoCal
up to places like Wyoming and Montana, but this year poor scheduling
limited our options.  In June I went up to Nevada to work on the Pony
Express reenactment, but that was a quick turnaround (except for the bad
generator, which has already been covered in detail!)

After returning from Nevada, I noted that the rear tires were getting a
bit thin, so I called up the local Firestone dealer in search of
Bridgestone 603Vs.  He says "Come on over, we have 10 of 'em in stock!"
Come to find out, the 185R14 Load Range D tire is the standard size for
Toyota stake-bed trucks (and they use 6 at a time!), so I added another
tire fact to my list.  I cleaned and painted my rims and took them over
for the new tires.

While changing the front tires to the rear, I saw a little grease thrown
on the inside of the fender well.  Sure enough, the boot was weeping a
bit, so a boot change was in order.  I went to the VWFLAPS, bought two
boot kits, and proceeded to do the job.  Gloves on, axle off, clean out
the old grease with paper towels, and examine the balls.  The CV on the
torn side was OK, but the other end had two warty balls.  Back to the
VWFLAPS to buy two new CVs (one for the bus, one for the spares box).
Tapped the old CV off and changed the boots.  Tapped the new CV on (brass
hammer works nice for this, BTW) and greased it up.  Bolted the whole
thing into place.  Latex gloves sure make mechanical work a lot cleaner,
once you get used to using them!

Mid July found all of my summer obligations met and we still had a little
time.  My sister-in-law in Atascadero needed a little help with a couple
of projects so we loaded up some tools, my wife, and two daughters and
headed that way.

We breakfasted at Cafe Mike in Castaic (good Mexican food too) and headed
east on CA126 to Ventura.

At Ventura we proceeded up US101 northward.  We got off in Santa Barbara
in search of gasoline and wandered about for a while.  Apparently they
have something against gas stations in Santa Barbara as it took quite a
while to track one down as the fuel gauge pointed accusingly at "R".
During our quest, however, we did pass by a shop with a 1946 (!) bug
parked outside of it.  These bugs were built on Kubelwagen chassis, so
they are considerably taller than the typical Beetle.  The first Baja Bug?

We took a scenic shortcut on CA154 past San Marcos Pass (2224ft) with a
side trip up a long winding 1-lane road to Chumash Painted Cave park,
which turned out to be a cave with some painting in it.  We continued on
CA154 past Lake Cachuma and picked up US101 again through Santa Maria and
San Luis Obispo and over Cuesta Grade (1572ft) to Atascadero

We spent a couple of days in Atascadero checking out the surprisingly good
local zoo, the brewpub, etc. while the kids played with their cousins and
grandparents.  I installed a door and a light fixture.

After three days, both fish and guests begin to smell.  So says Benjamin
Franklin, and I tend to agree.  We bid Marie's family goodbye and headed
north to Paso Robles.

We stopped at one of our favorite restaurants in Paso Robles only to find
it closed with an "owner retired" sign in the window.  Darn.  We headed
across CA46 to Cholame, whose claim to fame is that James Dean killed
himself there in his Porsche.  There is a restaurant there near the Dean
monument, but we definitely do _not_ recommend it.  We had found it
marginal in the past and this time the snotty waitress (she let us sit for
10 minutes so that breakfast hours would be over) aided us in our decision
to head up the road unfed.  We headed across California's Central Valley
and finally stopped at a Perko's restaurant in Wasco, where the steak and
eggs were excellent.

We then meandered northeast into the Sierras via the metropoli of
Richgrove and Ducor.  We ended up in California Hot Springs, where we
found a very nice warm pool and a couple of huge hot tubs, all at a modest
restored resort.  The girls enjoyed a swim and Marie and I had a nice long
soak.

The only part of the resort that hadn't been restored was the overnight
accommodations, so we headed up the road a couple of miles to Pine Flat
where there was a small motel.  Dinner was at the same
motel/restaurant/bar and was quite good.  We took a long walk up the only
street to work off dinner, and said hello to the local residents sitting
on their porches while marveling at the lack of traffic.

The next day found us breakfasting at the Hot Springs.  The owner had a
very nice 10-foot water wheel he was building in the creek and we talked
about his project.  He was expecting to extract 10KW from the wheel, but
Marie and I did some calculations and figured that he would need a lot of
water flow to achieve that rating!  We had to retrace our path, as our
goal was to drive up CA49 through the Gold Country.

We backtracked through Porterville and Tulare and hopped on the CA99
freeway to Fresno.  We left the freeway onto CA41 and headed north to
Oakhurst where CA49 began.  We drove through the mountains through the
communities of Mariposa and Coulterville and on to Jamestown.  We decided
to call it a night in Jamestown and were directed up the road a bit to the
Miner Motel.  The manager there was a bus fan, currently in search of a
21-window (aren't we all!)  He told us of a good restaurant back in
Jamestown and invited us to see the Railtown 1897 railroad museum.  Dinner
at the Morelia Mexican restaurant was excellent and we had a good time
walking the wooden sidewalks of the old mining town and admiring the
tourist traps.

The next morning we went to Railtown 1897, a state park that preserves a
working steam railroad.  The personnel are all volunteers, mostly retired
men who live for their trains.  The old maxim about the difference between
men and boys being the price of their toys extends to these fellows very
well.  This particular museum specializes in the Shay engines, which have
their steam pistons mounted vertically, driving a shaft that in turn
drives all the wheels via huge bevel gears.  This results in good traction
and pulling ability, but relatively low speeds, much as reduction boxes
reduce the speeds of VW buses.

This is a working roundhouse, and the
people giving the tours are the same people who work on the engines, so
you get a chance to hear a lot of war stories about the fun of maintaining
large iron machines.  The process of replacing the cast-iron "tire" on a
locomotive drive wheel makes the hassle of getting a CV off of an axle
shaft seem rather trivial!

Leaving Jamestown, we continued north on CA49 through Sonora, Angel's
Camp, Mokelumne Hill, and Sutter Creek.  We switched to CA16 and headed to
Sacramento.  The temperature and humidity both went up as we dropped in
altitude.  The Sacramento River is at an elevation of only 18 feet above
sea level near the state capitol.

Our destination was the California State Railroad Museum in Old Town
Sacramento.  If you're going there, the parking garages are very iffy for
a bus, as they advertise a maximum height of 6'10".  Since I have a roof
rack and antennas, there was no way I was going to risk it!  The hot tip
is to drive directly to the museum on 3rd street and bear right just
before you reach the building.  There is parking just under the freeway
intended for RVs, but with a number of auto-size spaces as well.  It's
shaded, and has ample height for your bus, no matter what is on top!

The California State Railroad Museum is a large professional exhibit with
a great variety of engines and rolling stock.  It is quite sterile by
comparison with the Jamestown museum.  Everything is just a bit too clean!
They have many historic engines and rolling stock from Nevada and
California railroads, and an extensive exhibit on the creation of the
Central Pacific.  They have one of the last remaining Mallet engines, a
monster with 16 driver wheels made for pulling trains over the Sierras.
The firebox alone of this engine would provide an ample garage for my bus!
Another attraction was a Pullman sleeper car rigged to move and sound like
it was in motion.  As someone who doesn't like to sleep near railroad
tracks, I doubt that I could ever get to sleep on a train itself.  The 6'
bunks wouldn't work out very well either with my height!

We left the museum and hit US50 east just in time for the evening rush
hour.  In Nevada, US50 is called "The Loneliest Road in America", but
leaving Sacramento we had lots of company as we crawled along.  Once past
Placerville, the traffic thinned considerably and we putted slowly but
surely over Echo Summit (7382 ft, making this a 7364 foot climb in less
than 2 hours driving) into South Lake Tahoe.  From there it was just a
short ride down the hill to Carson City where my father (who celebrated
his 90th birthday in June) lives.

Marie and the kids spent several days checking out the excellent
Children's Museum and swimming pool while I did a few chores around the house.

The next day my father drove me over to Hawthorne in his Mercury Sable
(about 120 miles away) to meet with some of his amateur radio friends.  That
Mercury really flies, and while we didn't break the ton, we got pretty
close!  After sitting in the "God's-eye" seat of a bus for hundreds of
miles, that low Mercury seemed like a go-cart!

Hawthorne is home to a huge Army ammunition storage facility.  Most ammo
is stored in underground bunkers and the characteristic mounds extend as
far as the eye can see across the broad valley all around Hawthorne.

The El Capitan casino in Hawthorne serves a ham-and-eggs special that is
to die for.  It comes on two plates, with the slice of bone-in ham filling
one plate all by itself.

On the way back, we took a side trip through the
farming district of Mason Valley and Smith Valley to visit a couple of my
friends from SoCal who recently emigrated to the Silver State.  Mason and
Smith Valleys are irrigated from the Walker River, which also fills Walker
Lake, a jewel in a parched desert.  The contrast between the irrigated
lands around Yerington and the desert around Schurz is remarkable.

While staying in Carson City, we ate at Sharkey's Casino in Gardnerville
(great prime rib), Red's Old 395 in Carson (good BBQ, and 50 different
beers on tap!) and even ventured out to Dayton to eat at a historic hotel.

Our wanderlust was waning, so we decided to head for home by out usual
route, straight south on US395.  We got a fairly good start, but were
delayed by construction north of Gardnerville.  After that, things went
smoothly over the high Sierra passes (7519, 8138, 8041, and 7000 feet) and
down to Bishop.  The girls fed the ducks at the beautiful city park while
I looked after the needs of the bus.

We headed southward through the Owens Valley with relatively light
headwinds and crosswinds.  The winds here can be very fierce, so we
counted ourselves lucky that the winds were light even though the
temperatures approached 110F in the afternoon.  We passed Owens Lake and
the desert communities of Ridgecrest, Mojave, Lancaster, and Palmdale.  We
climbed over the last pass (3179ft) and hit home around 6 in the evening.

Overall, we put on 1613 miles and averaged about 44MPH while moving.
Since I adjusted the valves right before we left, they didn't need any
attention during the trip.  The oil level on my 1-year-old Mexican engine
stayed constant.  The bus required no repairs at all during the trip.
Mileage remained between 18 and 20MPG.  When curves and grades permitted,
we usually cruised at 58MPH.

I hope you enjoyed the ride!

George Lyle

