From: Ricciotti(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 12 Aug 2001 12:41:58 EDT
To: jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Subject: [T2] First time non-greeting from ACVW

John, I wouldn't take this to heart.  I'm a relatively new owner of a 1973 VW 
Camper Bus (my first VW) - bought it in Eugene, OR back in June of 1998.  
Driving it home to Boston, people waved at me, gave me the peace sign, asked 
me for Weed, asked where the hippies were in Boston, asked me where the 
Grateful Dead Concert was and asked me for rides.  I had NO CLUE what that I 
had not just bought another vehicle, but had bought into a whole other 
culture that I have grown to love.  

I'm sure a lot of "Bus" drivers were waving at me all the way home, and I 
would have been clueless at that time till I got back and began to realize 
that owning a bus isn't just owning another vehicle.  It's being a part of 
this really amazing and unique community, and once I got that, I started 
waving and honking at other VW Bus drivers no matter where they were.

Still, there are times I get caught off guard and I forget.  So yeah, we are 
with you on this.  Don't take it too personal.  I'm sure he'll come around 
soon!

Chris Ricciotti
1973 VW Camper Bus (Sufari)
Jamaica Plain, MA.

In a message dated 8/10/2001 12:35:35 PM Eastern Daylight Time, 
type2-digest-help(-at-)type2.com writes:

<< From: John Baker [mailto:jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com]
 Sent: Friday, August 10, 2001 10:18 AM
 To: type2(-at-)type2.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
 Subject: [T2] First time non-greeting from ACVW
 
 Well, it's friday, so I guess I'm alright to ramble here for a spell.  This
 past Wednesday, I was cruising down Rt. 68 in Xenia, Ohio in my '66 Camper.
 A buddy of mine was driving right behind me in my '83 Vanagon. We were
 returning from a rock-climbing trip in Clifton Gorge where we took a bunch
 of teen-agers from the YMCA teen camp.  Right outside of town, I see a nice
 blue and white bay window coming at me, nice bus.  So, of course I give a
 big, nice, friendly wave out the window.  I get NOTHING from the bay window
 driver.  I look in my rear-view and my buddy driving the Vanagon does the
 same as me, gives a big friendly greeting.  Again, NOTHING from the driver
 of the bay window! So, WTF?!?!?  This is the first time EVER that I have
 been in my bus and NOT gotten a wave from another passing bus driver.  Here
 in Ohio, air cooled buses are few and far between, and when I see another
 one on the road I get very excited. It's kinda like being told "Hey, you're
 not alone out ther!
 !
 !
 !
 !
 e!" So, am I the only who feels like this when I see another bus on the
 road? Tell me there are more people who do... Oh my God, I'm not a freak am
 I!?!?!?  Wait a mi >>
