Date: Fri, 3 Aug 2001 19:10:27 -0400 (EDT)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Bart Daugherty <badaugherty(-at-)msn.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Road Trip or am I crazy?

On Fri, 3 Aug 2001, Bart Daugherty wrote:


> and brakes and I would really really really like to install a larger fuel
> tank.  I also need to aquire a tire tool or star that fits my bus I won't
> have the air tools on the road.  Well am I crazty?  I mean should I just

The tank isnt extremely hard...you have to push a bit harder then you
might think to get the baywindow tank in...

If you find an earlier (68-70 i suppose 71) baywindow to pull it from, get
the filler neck and connection hose, also get the twisty vent tube section
from above the tank that then connects into the fillerneck box.

Use the baywindow fuel sender.

remove your old tank, and look at the whole layout...its pretty easy.  For
the filler neck (assuming the hose from the donar is good!) I used the
baywindow metal section, and attached it to the edge of where the splitty
neck goes through toward the door.  It sits "flatter" then the splitty
neck, in order to really mate up to the baywindow tank.  You've gotta have
a bit of finesse when filling..

I used three longer bolt/nut combos and some giant washers on the top two
of the three bolts to squeeze the neck to the "lip" of the opening.  fab a
suitable spacer for the lower edge and do the same.

if the tank has a good filler cap GRAB IT.  the short-but-wide simply
nonvented ones are the best...the think springy wierd things suck, their
gaskets give way (ie: the only cap i've found at any flaps..)  Just
replace the cork gasket on the original style cap if it needs it.


Now, before you shove that tank in there for the last time (be sure you
have the lower nipple removed for all of this..dont want to bend that!)
connect the twisty-metal vent tube to the top of the tank and let it run
toward the pass. side.  connect your wires to the ground and sender..

Use a section of rubber hose, then metal, to extent the vent up into the
space above the fuel-filler...or at least just the top edge of the intake
vents.  Use the metal to give it a good up-then-down 180 degree turn to
keep water out.  Be sure this ends up above the top level of the tank.
Just a bit of creativity makes this work cleanly.

Oh.  Be sure you pull the holddown straps (and assorted pads..) from the
bay tank.

What I did...I undid the original straps from the "floor" of the
compartment, and used lenghts cut from the end of the bay straps to extend
to the proper length.  A few test-fits are in order here.

If you have access to welding/brazing equipment it should be obvious how
to attach the additional lenght of strap to the old strap.  If not,
overlap 2 or 3 inches, clamp together, drill two 1/8" holes into the
combined section, and stick a couple of short #8 screws in these
holes...smooth off the pointy edges on a grinder, and if you think it
would help dab some locktite on them.

...my splitty tank was crushed from a non-venting gas cap from RMM, so i
had no qualms about making this a permanent installation...ymmv.

All in all, (my donor bus was across the yard..) it took me less then 2
hrs start to finish (no engine or trans in the donor and the firewall
section had already been removed..) though i'd planned on a whole day.

And yes, you have to push HARD to get it in. and pull hard to get it out.
it squeezes between the "floor" and the brace that runs under the way-back
floor....things bend a bit to give space, but not enough to do any
damage...just stretchs a bit.


Now.  tiretool.  Go to your favorite quality tool vendor (ie: sears) and
buy an 18" 1/2" drive breaker bar. The "flex handle" as they call it is
fine here.  About 25 bucks. Next, purchase a 1/2" drive 19mm 6 point
socket. you may have to kick them around a bit to find the 6 point but it
is still available. they hide sometimes. :) Choose a deep-well socket if
you prefer, though the normal socket is usually fine for stock wheels.


NOW. DO NOT install those wheels with air tools! (well, if you are
extremely experienced with your impact wrench you know how to handle it..)

When you have the tires mounted, insist (and watch) them torque the lugs
by hand, preferably with a torque wrench. (tire shops DO have them even if
they dont like using them..)

Always use your new breakerbar to install your lug bolts.  Use antiseize
on the threads of the lug bolts, too...it is extremely frustrating to find
yourself on the side of the road without enough OOMF to undo what someones
ethusiastic air tool did.


Also, be sure you have a jack that can do what you need.  A stock jack is
generally OK /if/ your jack points are perfectly solid.  If they are
not...a wide based scissor jack is usually my choice for easy-to-pack.
Be sure its tall enough...the one i have will do fine on the front beam,
but on the rear I have to lift at the shock mount point to get enough
lift.  I also keep a bottle jack in the bus with me as well..though the
small head on it is really not much help when trying to lift a bus.

I seem to recall a small hydrolic scissor jack in some tool catalog that i
cant find at the moment.  1 ton version was about 30 bucks?  had enough
lift to do a tire change on a bus, and a good wide base and suitable head.
2000 lbs is enough to lift a corner of our busses without much trouble.  I
think they had a 2 ton version for a bit more.  It was pretty compact when
closed.  I keep thinking about getting one.  Of course, I also think about
getting a job.

I want to say it was in a harbor freight catalog...enco and msc dont
usually carry stuff of that sort.


> leave the bus at home and drive the Mercury?  It's just me a my little

~gasp~  Never!  Change the oil, take some along for spares plus enough for
an oil change when you get to tampa.  Adjust the valves.  Adjust your
points, set the timing.  Take all the tools you needed to do the above.
Plus a spare set of points and a spare condensor.

This is your minimum spares and tools list. :)

Enjoy the trip...if you're a NEATO member be sure you take your TTT with
you! and if your not, borrow someone elses. :)

Oh. and check that AIRS thing as well.

...david

--
David Raistrick  '66 SO-44 Westy		keen(-at-)type2.com
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign 				in Guyton Ga
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


