From: "Dave Jersey" <arborman(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Splitties" <vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com>
Date: Sat, 4 Aug 2001 11:18:31 -0400
Subject: Pops and sputters

Hey y'all
After a much needed retorque on the Award Winning Burrito Express a test
ride was in order.  What better test ride than a run up 321 to Boone and
High Country Bus Festival.  I won't go into excruciating detail except to
say that those that attended seemed to enjoy themselves and that the rain
gods were particularly generous this year.

The case did indeed need a retorque, the 8mm studs were 4ft/lbs the 12s were
11 ft/lbs.  If you prefer newton/meters convert it yourself because the task
is done and either spec works fine.  I also replaced the "high performance
oil control springs" with stock because I kept blowing oil filters on
startup with 90+ psi.  She starts cold at 40 and once warm keeps a nice
steady 30 PSI now.  I'm happy with that.  Thanks to Eric and Barb for the
advice and encouragement!

I removed the dual Solex 40s mostly because all the requisite plumbing was
not aethetically pleasing and although she ran great the fuel consumption
was a tad more than I like.  Also, as I looked over all the steel tubing I
use for fuel lines (use as little rubber as possible) a spot that chafed
against the fan shroud was about half worn through.  This happened in about
1 year.  A reminder to check your fuel lines regularly!

I reinstalled the progressive Weber that had been running way lean after
going up from 127.5 to 135 jets.  She was hard to start and wanted some
warmup before rolling.  I noticed a most pronounced drop in available power
at rolloff.  Partial throttle she'd do ok but if my foot gets heavy she pops
and skips and generally misbehaves.  No power on hills.  At the campout she
died completely and thanks to Mel we were able to get her going again with a
static timing check and some chewing gum.

The Weber book I have does not cover the 32/36 DVEF (Think that's the one)
but does cover the DFAV which looks to be close.  I'm thinking of trying a
stock Solex 34.  Amazing that I keep drifting closer to the stock
configuration huh?

Am I barking up the wrong tree in thinking it's carburation?

As always, thanks for your help folks.
Mad Uncle Dave
Member in dubious standing, Full Moon Bus Club
http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com
