From: "No Quarter" <silent(-at-)beatricene.com>
To: "listbus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 4 Aug 2001 10:47:44 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] City on my butt!

This is true.  There are so many petty violations out there that phone calls
are the cops way of "copping out" otherwise they would be constantly writing
violations 24/7.  I still say that if someone phones you in, the police
should mediate a face-to-face discussion between the parties involved.  This
will weed out the "revenge" callers.  Those that really felt strongly about
their complaint would be willing to face the "violator" and the hopes of a
compromise could be reached between the parties.  As it is, the caller hides
in a veil of secrecy and that just spawns all kinds of petty calls.  It
would suck to be a cop.  Anyway, you can always find some kind of violation
no matter where you go - the more laws on the books, the better.

Just last week I got a warning ticket for parking on the wrong side of the
street facing the wrong way in a no parking zone.  I was unloading my lumber
truck and had my flashers on.  We've all seen UPS trucks have we not?  How
about DHL, Yello Freight, Roadway Express, etc.  See how they park?  So I'm
pretty much convinced someone phoned me in.  The cop felt so bad about it,
she didn't even fill out my name or anything.  She said, "Technically you
are illegal but I have follow up on this."  I know her via some connections.
Everyone calls her Downtown Brown because her last name is indeed Brown.  As
she handed me the warning ticket she said it was no big deal.  I was
sweating in sweltering heat, carrying boards to some gal's backyard for a
shed - I don't know who felt worse - the cop or me.  At any rate, peolpe
that can hide behind a phone call are to me, about the biggest skud bucket
bottom dwellers known to man.  I bet 99% of them wouldn't call if they knew
they had to face their "violator."

Anyway, ever since my tattle-tale neighbor died (and I pissed off a lot of
people with that post too) I haven't had one issue with the cops at home.
Matter of fact, as a "test," I have 3 tires in the roof rack of my bug and
it has sat in the street all week.  Before, I couldn't have it out there for
more than 24 hours before I got my tires chalked and warning ticket.  Yes
I'm in violation but the laws are only enforced if someone phones you in.
So guess what?  Ever since my neighbor has been in a position where he
couldn't place phone calls to the police, I haven't had any more complaints
phoned in or any police stop by.  I'm really sorry Bill left this earth as a
bitter old man but all I know is that I'm enjoying my newfound peace and
quiet.

I'm really sorry to hear about people getting letters from their city
governments.  I've been there and it sucks.  I've become more adept and
hiding my vehicles on the place.  I always thought fences were terrible as
it raised boundaries between you and everyone else but as I grow older, I
see that fences aren't so much for hiding out from the neighbors as it is
just keeping them out.  Everyone else technically raises the fences and not
you.  Pity shame it has to be that way.

As long as you live in a town, it's going to be this way.  The wealthier the
neighborhood, the worse it is.  I've learned my lesson - before you ever
entertain moving into a new house, the first thing you do is go to your
courthouse and have them research any "covenants" for the division you are
moving to.  I found out by surprise that "No Noxious trades (ie welding,
sandblasting, etc.) are allowed, no trailer homes, no living in structures
other than the primary building (damn - can't live in my 8 x 12 shed with a
crooked chiney on top) :-), no multiple families in one home, no advertising
signs other than for sale and garage sale signs, no "distruptive signs",
etc.  They pretty much covered their bases in post WWII America.  Seems
these problems have been around for a long time.  I think as long as you do
your work indoors, they can't say anything about it.  I live in a
neighborhood with 2 hot rodders and one of them had a car on the cover of a
70's issue of Hot Rod magazine (Chuck Hobein.)

Well, enough said.  I could go on and on but just make sure you get a copy
of your latest ordinances because an informed citizen is a powerful citizen.
You know exactly where you stand when you see the laws for yourself and
don't take people's "word" on it.  99.9% of the time - heresay is wrong.

NQ









