Date: Sun, 2 Jun 2002 22:34:52 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: KYLE LAFERRIERE <Klaferriere(-at-)msn.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] am I leaking? (propane stove questions

On Fri, 31 May 2002, KYLE LAFERRIERE wrote:

> Hi all,
> My question is simple, I hope.
> How do I turn the stove on in my 79?

Kyle,

In a perfect world, the answer is as simple as the question.  Turn on the
gas at the propane tank, turn on the gas at the stove, light the burner.

Now that we have departed Fantasy Island, however....  In the real world,
a number of problems crop up...

> I turned the knurled knob outside the car on the propane tank and
> heard the hissing sound.

This is bad, very bad.  The propane in the tank can be at extremely high
pressure, up to 200psi, depending on (a) the air temp and (b) the fuel
level in the
tank. The stove wants a constant 2-3psi supply of propane.  In order to
get the stove the 2-3psi it wants, the pressure has to be reduced.
VW (and almost
all RVs) use a 2-stage regulator to reduce the pressure to 10-20 psi, then
again to 2-3 psi.  The manufaturer's life-span on a pressure regualtor is
10-15 years.  Considering tha thte youngesr air-cooled bus there is is old
enough to vote her eint he US, every OEM regulator is well beyond its
rated life span.  If you hear gas hissing when your open the valve on the
tank, that means your regulator is dead and is leaking.  It is surrounding
your bus with a cloud of flammable gas.  Most people consider this to be a
"bad thing" :-)  Fortunately, the solution is simple, if a bit costly.
Turn off the tank, undo the compression fitting holding the regulator to
the tank and second fitting holding the pipe to the stove (and the third
to the fridge if it's a vanagon) Take you rold regulator to an RV or
propane dealer and buy a replacement.   the cost about $50-75, in my
experience.  take it home and install it.

> I then turned on one of the burners in the car and heard the hissing
> sound for a second and then I could only hear it outside.

Once you have a proper and working regulator, then you need to come inside
and make sure that your valves are lean, no spider webs, and your air
tubes are clean, no spider webs there either :-) and try again.  Insect
infestation is the major problem inside the bus, a long test-tube brush
can be your freind here.

> Am I leaking, or just doing something wrong?

You are leaking :-)

> Also, is anyone in CA having a problem getting their tank filled
> because of the "improper" valve?

A big hanks to Karl on this... I was very worried about it and am glad
that I don't have to buy a second regulator in 3 years!

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail



