Date: Mon, 03 Jun 2002 12:06:32 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: ballantiner(-at-)uncw.edu, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] engine stand


>Does anyone have any experience with the 750 pound
>engine stand from Harbor Freight?  Seems like a good
>price and shipping is only about $10.  Would I have
>to fabricate/buy/modify anything to get this stand
>to adapt to type 4 or type 1 engines?

In my experience with store bought engine stands - I find them all to be 
too short for my comfort.

Otherwise all of them do an equal job. The stand you show will do fine for 
your project. Check the local auto part stores - you may be able to buy the 
same stand and not pay shipping and gain the opportunity to look the stand 
over before you buy it. When I worked at Advance Auto a couple of years ago 
they carried the same stand for about the same price.

This stand may need the engine mount modified to hold a VW engine with a 
drill and some minor hardware but it should do just fine.

Unsatisfied with the store bought variety I built my own.

I bought a stack of steel square thick wall tubing and made a horizontal 
'H' for the base. At the rear of this I added an upright post with the 
swivel mount made out of a 6" piece of round tubing. I drilled a hole in 
the metal tube and welded a large nut on it. This would lock rotation of 
the engine. I also braced the post from three directions to minimize flex. 
I then went to a local industrial supplier and bought 4 steel casters - 
just cheap things.

The actual engine mount is a slightly smaller diameter piece of 6" long 
tubing with a thick (1/4") plate welded to it. I then took 4 pieces of 
square steel bar - 1.5" wide, 3/4" thick, and a foot long (or so) and 
created the arms out of it. I drilled holes in the ends of each bar, used 
some smaller steel tubing as standoffs, used long bolts and mounted the 
arms all to an empty VW block. I then clamped them to the steel plate of 
the swivel head and drilled and bolted them to it. If I have a split case 
on the stand I will bolt the head directly to one half of the engine block 
without the standoffs. Once the engine block is whole - I'll mount it with 
all 4 arms and with the standoffs again so that I can build the clutch. 
Slotted arms would be nice to ease adjustability but it really hasn't been 
a problem and I have alot more confidence in my solid mounting arms versus 
the retail market's version.

I recently bought some more steel stock to make mounting arms for my 
Corvair transplant engines.

This stand is not instantly adjustable like the store bought versions BUT 
it is built like a Panzer tank which was important to me because I wanted a 
stand that I could use for anything and any engine. Eventually I might 
build a twin and create a rotisserie to mount my Beetle on so I can rotate 
the body over and work on the bottom of the body when I re-start that 
restoration project.

All together I have about $75 in my stand and it's the right size for me.


Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


