Date: Wed, 3 Mar 2004 09:59:25 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bus instrumentation

Not bad. First know that this will void the warranty... 

Now that this is out of the way... <grin>

Take a small flat blade screw driver. Remove the tach and put it on the table with a cloth under it to rpevent scratches. 

Around the outside edge of the glass front is a soft brass (?) ring that is crimped to hold the glass and guts inside the white (or black) plastic can of the instrument. Essentially they slide the guts into the can, place the face glass in place, the ring over the bunch and then roll over the back edge of that brass ring (painted black). 

Put the tip of the flat blade screwdriver between the can (body) and the back of the ring inside the lip. Rotate the screwdriver so that it forces one side of tip against the can and the other side with push out (bend) the lip. I had to try a couple screwdrivers to find one wide enough to push the lip out far enough to clean the edge of the can. I used one slightly too wide so I could spread the ring lip while pushing the tip at an angle - essentially acting as a ramp instead of pushing it along perpendicular to the can surface and the ring surface. Much more friction that way...

You could go around the lip and can this way twisting and bending the lip out but it will leave a jagged edge. I make the initial twist and then with slow firm pressure drag the screwdriver along while rotating the can. When you are done the ring will fall off, you can paint the needle with your favorite color, and if need be clean the insides. 

Beware your fingerprints will find their way to the face of the instrument and the inside of the glass and I found it impossible to clean it to my satisfaction!!! <grin> My dinner table does not qualify as a "clean room" for instrument assembly sadly... for smaller 2" instruments like my VDO oil pressure, oil temp, and head temp instruments make sure to get the "face" back in straight. This is a thin metal cover for the bottom half of the face. Covers the needle pivot point. 

Anyhow, reassemble and bend the lip back in place. I did this with my fingers and with a tape covered screwdriver...

Enjoy!!!

Chris







-----Original Message-----
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Sent: Mar 2, 2004 10:18 PM
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] bus instrumentation

Chris,

Is it difficult to take the tach apart?  I didn't see any obvious way to do 
it last time I had it out.
