Date: Wed, 3 Mar 2004 11:55:29 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: bus instrumentation (alternate version)

Chris, David, List, all the ships at sea...

Ummm, I realize that everyone has their own ideas about gauge face
beauty, but wouldn't it be a lot easier to match the bus OE gauge
needles to the VDOs rather than the other way around?  Not looking to
pick nits, start flame wars, foment civil unrest or anything, but it
sure seems a lot of work to undo and redo how ever many VDOs to
match-paint the VDO needles.  Not to mention voiding the warrantee,
getting your greasy fingerprints all over the innards, or not
reinstalling them in proper alignment ;-)  I seem to recall seeing
somewhere that the most "eyeball-ergonomic friendly" scheme of gauges
was a black background, white lettering/numbering, and an orangey-red
pointy thing, a scheme which should appear oddly familiar to those with
the VDO Cockpit style gauges...  I know that's pretty old school, but
what the heck - I also prefer the red light / green light, charging
device / oil pressure idiot lights too, instead of the red / red scheme
(stewpid bean counters).

Way back in the day, the early models of the Type 3 cars followed this
scheme, and I used to follow it on when I used the last edition black
background Type 3 speedometer, combination gauge, and adapted Fiat
tachometers to the Type 3 clock outards.  It was necessary to use an
adaptation of Chris's method to disassemble the Type 3 gauges, but they
were not crimped nearly as tight as it sounds like the VDOs are crimped.
IIRC all the bus gauge guts are easily accessible once the gauge panel
is popped out, right?  And another crazy idea:  insert some flexible
black plastic between the plastic part with the numbering on it and the
dark gray backing or repaint the OE gauge innards to give the appearance
of a VDO Cockpit style gauge...

And since we're talking gauge fun and games - has anyone in bus land
ever snagged the triple VDO gauge package out of the early to mid-'80s
Audi 4000/5000s and used them?  And if so, how do they look compared to
the VDO Cockpit style?  I know that they are a much closer match to the
"main" gauge faces on a 914 equipped with the console than the
aftermarket VDO, and you sure can't beat the price at the yards - US$3-4
a copy in SoCal...  And if they're junk - BFD, get another set the next
treasure hunting session.  FWIW I've never gotten a bad set yet...  Just
more idears for the day.

Peas out

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
