Date: Wed, 3 Mar 2004 16:14:35 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Foam Engine Seal

'Twas then writ by our Most Excellent Bus-Friend Richard of Atwell:

"Shiny side down to repel road spray. The other side would absorb it."

I am SO detecting a smelly little FART today - Cough! (archive), Cough!
(archive), Cough! (archive); however I'm just enough full of P&V and
feeling like the D*v*l's Own Advocate (tm) brand that I'm willing to
take up on this one...  I got an idear that it don't make a ONE whit of
difference unless you're going for a concours medal, Volks...  And if
you're going that far, you would have searched the globe and rounded up
one of the original "heat seamed on the edges, and shiny 'skin' on BOTH
sides" style seal...  Take that you trailer queens!  And my most humble
apologies, Richard :-)

The alternate universe of daily driver-mobiles propounds the following
for your dining and slam-dancing pleasure: if the open cell side down is
facing the roadway, what ever can worm it's way IN, can then worm its
way OUT, i.e. road spray, road-kill bodily fluid splatter, aqueous
solutions of nackle (chemistry joke), etc.  If'n it's shiny side down
facing the roadway, what ever spills into it from the engine room, i.e.
oil, rain water from the air vents, vermin effluvia, etc. can be trapped
and held by the seal and make a mess in the engine room.  Thimk about
for a few minutes; come to your own conclusions...

The List is ready, willing and able to answer all your questions.  So
let's get busy with some "best oil?", "best CR?", "best tires?", and
"best year ever?" Qs...  Bottom line is it's YOUR bus, so do whatever
blows your skirt up on this one :-)

Jim Hayden
Shiny side up and still living the good life on US$2.25 a gallon (and
climbing) 87 regular...
www.savethebays.org



E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
