Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2004 13:00:29 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] 2.0 air-cooled FI rebuild - upgrade just a wee bit?

Dear Friends in List-Land:

'Twas writ and I'm gonna paraphrase - would I / should I / could I
upgrade just a wee bit?

And someone else said (paraphrasing again) - would I / should I care
about parts quality?

Yes to both, and it doesn't need to cost you quite as much one might
suspect, if you shop carefully and strike on deals as they appear.  But
with the following 2 caveats - thou shalt not scrimp on thy cam, and
thou shalt not scrimp on thy heads...  if you're such a penny-pinching
tightwad that you've got screamin' Native 'Muricans and sh*ttin'
buffaloes in your coin purse, then read no further - you'll probably
have a coronary; all prices quoted in US$ [no Native 'Muricans or
buffaloes were harmed during the composition of this epistle].  And
don't go waving the "Type 1 ist cheaper/better" bloody shirt either -
I've been helping a friend put together an 82 x 90.5 2110cc T1 with as
good and/or equivalent quality stuff and the price tag is approaching
half AGAIN the level of what I spent on a 78 x 96 2260cc T4...  The
yardstick here is cost per mile traveled, not the least cost out of
pocket to leave the starting gate.  If you want to dance, be ready to
cheerfully pay the band after a night's work :-)

See the fine parts John Connolly sells at aircooled.net - a set of Keith
Black cast hypereutectic 96mm pistons with rings will set you back $250,
send out a set of stock 94mm T4 barrels to Rimco for honing - $125 and
you can set your CR to WHATEVER floats yer boat, but at least 8:1
depending on your cam choice.  Call Adrian at Headflow Masters and get a
set of 42 x 36 rebuilt T4 heads at $175 a copy.  Web-Cam and lifters
will set you back $300 and change.  A nice little improvement for not a
whole lot more than what a stock 2.0L rebuild will cost you - but
understand that some of how that stock intake/exhaust was engineered
works at cross purposes (lowered emissions vs longer life), so if
emissions are not as much a concern, there are areas of improvement - go
spend some time at the STF Type4rum and you'll get the hints.  I took
out a 2055 T4 (71 x 96) from my '72 Weekender (still running fine) at
the 160K mile mark - the heads had been freshened up at about half the
mileage when it changed from 914 w/ D-jet duty to Bus duty.

If you're a bit more adventurous; a 78mm crank ($450 (-at-) a/c.net) with
Scat chro-moly T1 rods ($165).  If you're really feeling adventurous,
sign up for some of John's Super Squish pistons in 96mm ($700).  I SO
wish that they had been available when I bought my JE forged flat-tops
($450), but they were 6-8 months in the offing...  Oh well!  A sweet
little 2260 is within your grasp - I did mine for a bit more than $4K;
that price only because I went COMPLETELY over the top on new heads
($600 each), and a set of the dearly departed LN Engineering Biral
Babies acquired at 25% off on their pre-production order special (a mere
snip at $750 for 4, barrels only).  The absolutely hardest part about
building the 78 x 96 motor was taking the Scat rods to the grinder to
touch up the caps for cam lobe clearance; otherwise it was just a lot of
patient measuring and careful work - but you do that anyway.  I was able
to obtain a set of Dellorto 45 DRLAs in trade for a set of 40s I already
had, but a really smart fellow would likely be able to use the
mega-squirt DIY FI and the stock FI pieces...

Just some food for thought & a happy Friday to all

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
