Cc: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Fri, 5 Mar 2004 17:46:18 -0800
To: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
Subject: Tempeh and Bus Apathy in SFBA

On Mar 4, 2004, at 8:59 AM, Seann Stafford wrote:

> Non bus content:
> what the heck is a tempeh?

Tempeh is a Japanese fermented soy bean cake (not to be confused with 
natto, with is a Japanese fermented soy bean stinky-goo-pile).  It can 
be used as a meat substitute (or not; it's pretty good in its own right 
:-)

When I was in university, there was a Chinese restaurant in town that 
would do General's Chicken with tempeh instead of chicken; it was 
absolutely delicious.

You should be able to find tempeh at any asian market or natural food 
store.  It's also easy to find recipes for it.  Deborah Madison has a 
great cookbook called _Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone_ with several 
terrific tempeh recipes in it.  Don't be afraid of this cookbook if 
you're not a vegetarian (I'm a dedicated meat eater, but I use recipes 
from this cookbook 3 or 4 times a week).

Bus content to follow below...

> Why is it that I never see any west coast camping get togethers?  I
> know for a fact that there are some bus oriented camping groups here
> in Oregon,.. dunno if they would accept the presence of a lowly
> standard non westy bus driver though.  I see meets and cruises up in
> Washington state, but nada in Oregon.  Go figure...

I am trying to get a VW camper group together in the San Francisco Bay 
Area, but you would not believe how difficult this is.  I have tried 
creating a "community" for this on orkut.com (some may remember my 
solicitation for members a while back), but once people get signed up 
for it, there seems to be very little interested in actually keeping up 
with it (as evidenced by my attempt to get a carabus from SFBA -> Los 
Osos / San Simeon together, and getting exactly one response ... 
looking forward to it, Larry! ... I just gotta get my fuel tank problem 
dealt with.)

I'm thinking of abandoning orkut.com in favor of resurrecting 
sfbaywindows.com (Chris Renz's old domain from an attempt to do the 
same when he lived in San Francisco) and running a more traditional 
"enthusiast" web site from it.

I have also tried leaving notes under windshield wipers when I 
encounter Busses parked around the streets of San Francisco (in my 
neighborhood and other neighborhoods that I visit).  Some of these 
Busses I see time and time again, but I have a 0% call-back rate when a 
note is left.

It's a little depressing... I see literally dozens of VW Busses and 
Vanagon campers every week in San Francisco, but it seems as though no 
one cares at all about getting together with other Bus / Vanagon 
owners.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
