Date: Tue, 03 Dec 2002 08:16:44 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 12 Volt Converter and more

>I am interested in this westfalia power converter
>settup. Was this settup used with busses that had 2
>batteries? When pluged in, will it charge both
>batteries or just the accessory battery? Can you
>monitor both batteries with it?  If it is just made to
>charge the accessory battery, will the relay trickle
>charge system that is used on many bays be effected?
>These are just a few things that were bouncing around
>my head. Thanks for any help that you can give. Have a
>happy holiday season!!!

Here is a quickie description of the system (as I understand it in my '78 
Westy).

There is an outside input for 120 volts. This leads to a transformer under 
the rear seat. That transformer is for charging the aux battery (driver's 
side engine compartment). Also the outside input feeds a pair of outlets 
under the rear set. The whole thing is controlled by the circuit breaker 
next to the outlets.

 From the aux battery is a 12 volt feed that goes to a control panel for 
the charger and refrigerator below the driver's side rear seat vent window.

This control panel turns the charger for the aux battery on and off with a 
timer. It also controls power to the fridge. It also has a meter on it to 
give you an idea of how well charged your aux battery. Finally it controls 
whether the fridge runs on 12 volts or 120 volts.

The aux battery is connected to the main battery and charging system 
through a relay. When the alternator is not charging (or is it when the key 
is off?) the relay is open and the aux battery is disconnected from the 
main battery and alternator. When the relay is closed the aux battery is 
charged but slowly due to the small diameter wires which limit current flow 
just like a cheap regulator.

I believe that if you leave the key on and have a discharged aux battery 
and a charged main battery the relay will close and the charges will 
balance thus discharging the main battery and somewhat charging the aux 
battery.

The transformer under the rear seat does not have an automatic regulator 
and it can overcharge your battery if left on too long. When mine died (was 
putting out 19 volts - 25 volts) I replaced it with a modern battery 
charger with a built in regulator. It fits in the same location and 
operates the same. I have it hard wired in. I plan to move it's charge 
meter to someplace visible and you add a toggle switch someplace to bypass 
the timer in the OEM control panel. This way the battery charger will 
function more like it's store bought self. The rest of the system will be OEM.

I have also added my inverter to the aux battery system. In my situation 
the aux battery powers several things and generally not the fridge (which 
gets seldom used). That allows me to charge my camera or tool batteries or 
run small tools anytime, anywhere. I do the same thing from the 120 volt 
outlets inside the van when I have "shore power".

I considered ripping out the whole OEM system but decided that I like the 
looks of it and want to keep it functional. My changes are invisible.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
