From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com'" <bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com>,
Date: Tue, 3 Dec 2002 11:27:21 -0600 
Subject: Re: [T2] 1973 Bus, Question

	Hey all...

	Jason was pretty much dead on the money with his analysis, but IMHO
there's really three things you want to look into here.  Yes, the electrical
portion of the ignite switch has probably gone south for the winter - pretty
much readily available from all the usual suspects.  Consult the Bentley for
R&R procedures - and don't drop that itty-bitty screw that holds it to the
steering column lock assembly.  I replaced the electrical part of the ignite
switch on my '72 Weekender on GP, but over time it developed problems of
it's own, and I had to replace it with another unit.  Quality issues can
raise their ugly heads - yer warned...

	Secondly, methinks your lock cylinder may also be getting ready to
take a powder on you.  This is at the opposite end of the steering column
lock of the electrical portion of your ignite switch.  Consult the Type 2
Library articles about how to extract it - but a paper clip will NOT cut the
mustard as an extraction tool.  You'll need something more substantial, like
a wire coat hanger to make the tool.  AMHIK :-)

	And last but not least, the actual steering column lock assembly,
may also be getting ready to take a cr*p on your birthday cake.  If the
whole assembly has been a little loose in it's moorings, you may be at risk
for a melt down.  Mine failed in the driveway, after I was swapping cars,
and after just returning from a weeklong road trip of nonstop hi-larity in
Old Mehico.  There's sort of a cammed operating slide that is pulled back
(forward?) as you turn the key, thereby unlocking the steering column.  Mine
parted company, allowing the slide to run home, jamming the lock cylinder
mechanism in sort of a mid-position between off and run...

	The Library articles are probably your best bet for concise
information - Bentley gets a little vague at times, by combining the removal
and extraction procedures for the various early years of Bay-dom.  The
column lock itself has been obsoleted, I was able to get one from Steve
Sandlin (who needs to elevated to near sainthood).  When I got the '73
Deluxe, the PO had literally hacked into the side of the metal housing and
installed the electrical portion of the ignite switch from another model of
air-cooler, and did not reinstall the itty-bitty screw.  The lock cylinder
was boogered and did not automatically return to the run position, so the
starter would not automatically disengage when the key was released from the
ignite position.  Anyone care to guess what happens when an inattentive
person (not me) fails to follow directions about manually returning the key
to the run position?  Anyone care to guess what the starter pinion looks
like after being continuously engaged to a running motor for an hour long
drive on the freeway?  Anyone care to guess how well it works when the
inattentive person (not me) stalls it coming off the freeway, and tries to
restart it?

	Anyone? Anyone?  Buehler?

	Jim H.
	www.savethebays.org   
