Date: Wed, 04 Dec 2002 09:10:36 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Exhaust header wrap reconsidered (long)

>http://www.seinesystems.com/index-1.htm
>
>It's basically a metal shield that mounts between the heatexchangers and the
>valve covers/heads, reflecting some of the radiant heat. I'm sure something
>similar could be cooked up for the Type-4 engine, if you so desired.

That's basically what VW did with the horse shoe pipes on the late bay 2.0 
engines. They are (were) double layered. Stainless steel on the inside 
layer and plain steel on the outside. Most of us only have the stainless 
steel layer intact due to rust.

This double layer helps the heater along very much apparently as my 
friend's '78 had them intact when she bought it fresh from out west. Now a 
couple of years later the TN weather has rusted them away (I saw them 
several times in various stages of rusting away) and the heater has a 
greatly diminished heat output. It isn't a question of how much air is 
flowing through the system, just how much heat is in the air.

What I suggest is to take a U pipe (same shape as the OEM VW pipe) but of 
slightly larger diameter and split it down the middle so that there are two 
U shaped pipes still but open now. Now weld these over the OEM pipes using 
the ridge down the edge of the OEM pipe to weld to (like the factory I 
believe).

Add a drain hole or two if they are welded on solid. Spot welds would do 
the job I think.

Now the pipes would not be cooled by the winter wind but they would cool 
relatively fast I believe.

Also external moisture (road wash) would not be a problem.

A better solution would be to add the outer layer using stainless pipe.

ALL of the aircooled engines that I have seen that used exhaust pipe heat 
had air shields or double layered pipes between the engine and the heaters.

FWIW...


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
