From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 4 Dec 2002 11:50:33 -0600 
Subject: RE: How do Retractable Seatbelts Lock?

	Noble List, and especially List Admins, et al...

	In the interests of those who may be compelled to p*tz around with
opening those retractable seat belts because of this thread (and I'm going
to emulate the incomparable musical stylings of G. Lyle here):

	"FOR GOD'S SAKE DON'T OPEN THAT THING UP!" (I'm shouting because I
care, m'kay)  "IF YOU KEEP PICKING AT IT, HOW DO YOU EXPECT IT TO HEAL?"


	You guys and gals are scaring me a little with all this crazy talk
about how these things work.  They work because they do.  Alright?  How many
of you try to figure out why gravity works?  How many of you try to figure
out why time only goes in one direction? How many of you try to figure out
how many f*rts make an ounce and where does the smell go?  (Maybe not the
right terminology here, but try to understand my point)

	Once upon a time, thousands of years ago in the mid-70s, I too was
plagued by curiosity about those things work and I decided to take one
apart.  As near as my shocked mind could comprehend, the mystery spring
doohickey is "counterwound" against it's own tension created by way the coil
is wrapped, and that little sonofab*tch came flying out at me like one
seriously p*ssed off spawn of that Alien(tm) creature.  It hit me in the
face about one inch below my left eye.  Please don't mess around with those
things.  I don't really remember how I got it rolled back together now, and
I don't think I want to remember...

	I've done about half a dozen really stewpid things in my life that
probably should have left me maimed or dead (or worse), and that one little
stunt still ranks about number 3 or 4.  Please - I don't want to have to
read about anyone on the list have to go spend a charming afternoon at the
local emergency room.  Those things just work, and that's all you need to
know!

	I'm going to sign off now, because my fingers are getting a little
cold, twitchy, and spasmodic just recalling that little stunt.  I think I
may need a drink, too...  Admins:  I beg of you, please euthanize this
thread, before someone gets hurt.  

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org
	STBs factoid: I'm told by those who have studied the matter
intensively, that 4.347 f*rts make an ounce and the smell generally goes up
(unless you're in the southern hemisphere)...
