From: "Chris Sheridan" <csheridan(-at-)virtual-consulting.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 18 Mar 2003 22:11:37 -0800
Subject: Top End Rebuild : Update

>maybe, I should just fix what needs it and leave it at that for now, then
>see what happens. I always want to be the good bus owner and do it myself,
>or make sure its done right so myself and my wife/dog are always safe when
>out travelling, but im not weathy either, this would all be going on the
>danged credit card if I did it, so i dont want to just throw money away
>either.

You you have a motor with good compression that has worn valve guides and an
oil leak. If the compression readings are
all around 120 and this information is recent, I wouldn't pull the motor
yet. If you're sure the leaks are from the head area
(BTW - is it possible the leak is coming from the case studs/bolts or either
of the seals?)  When you reinstalled the push rod tubes did you make
sure that the tube seating areas were free of gunk? I've found that I get
less leaks if I install them without permatex or sealant, just a light film
of fresh oil.
Same for the valve cover gaskets. If I were you I would consider changing
the tubes, tube gaskets and vc gaskets again on my own with the
motor in the car. This will cost around $100 and your own free labor. It may
eliminate the oil leak. Buy a $10 torque wrench and make sure that those
bottom
four head bolts that you can access are not 80 foot pounds. They should be
around 25 foot pounds.

For the guide problem I would save up for a new set of heads, get
recommendations from the list and find a good set of heads new or properly
rebuilt for
$400 to $600, read the procedures and gather the tools, put up with the blue
smoke if the compression is good, when you have the parts you need, whether
you do
it yourself or not, bring the new heads and parts for the job to buslab when
you're ready or get a floor jack and spend a weekend doing it yourself.
Either way, the cost
will be less and the knowledge transfer more.

Chris
Richmond, CA
