Date: Wed, 19 Mar 2003 09:03:12 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Casting Fool <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>, Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Inexpensive head lamp

Buy thee a $10 analog multimeter and start testing. Each headlight has 
three wires to it. The brown one is the ground and screws onto the rear of 
the headlight assembly INSIDE the bus.

By setting the meter to the first setting above 12 volts and putting the 
black lead on the brown connector out front, you can then test the 
headlight wiring. Put the red probe on one of the other connectors (1 will 
be for low beam and the other will be for the high beam). If you get 12 
volts then cycle the high beam / low beam switch. Now the 12 volts should 
go away. Put the red probe on the other wire and you should see 12 volts 
again. Cycle the switch and the power should shift back to the first wire. 
If you get no juice then consider that the ground is bad. If no juice now 
switch the black probe to a clean shiny screw head within reach - if need 
be install a clean screw in one of the holes for the headlight retainer ring.

Retest. Got lights? Bad ground. Clean or replace the ground wire.

No? Do a continuity test on the OEM ground wire to the shiny screw head. 
Got a circuit? Okay then the ground is okay.

Now go backwards through the circuit. Are the terminals inside the nylon 
connector that pushes on the headlight in good condition and not pushed 
halfway out the back of the nylon connector block?

The next stop for the headlight wiring is the fuse block. Go back there and 
put the black probe on a shiny screw head and check the bottom of each 
headlight fuse (load side of each fuse). Got juice? Problem is in the 
wiring between the fuse and headlight. Check the ends first.

No juice? Go to the top of the fuse (source side of each fuse). Juice? Bad 
fuse, bad fuse connection, bad fuse tab, bad something right there.

No juice? Pull fuse panel and turn it around. Check yellow and white wires 
for juice. They supply power to BOTH headlights at this point and one 
headlight works so you know they are hot when they are supposed to. This 
portion of the checks is to test you and your meter. Notice how the white 
and yellow wires feed two fuses each. Each fuse represents a headlight so 
that if one fuse blows then both lights don't fail.

Now repeat the tests until you find where the juice is stopping. If no 
juice, suspect bad ground point for your test probe. Test meter on battery. 
Red on red, black on black.

Also swap the headlights or preform a continuity test on the bad light.

Any FLAPS should have a new round headlight for you.

Renew and clean everything as you go along.



>Replaced all of the fuses, and got the headlights on, one of them anyway.
>:O)
>
>One headlight is a Wagner #M548, and the other is a GE #153.  The GE is the
>one that isn't working.
>
>I remember a thread on the topic of headlights, but they seemed to mostly
>concern upgrading to a much better head lamp.
>
>Is there something not too expensive available at WalMart or a common FLAPS
>that will work for now?  I can get something nice later, but I need to get
>them both working now, in order to get Giacomo on the road.

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
