From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 19 Mar 2003 18:11:03 -0800
Subject: window rubber reconditioning

Be careful in using oils on rubber. Oils can soften and degrade rubber. This
is just something that I happen to know.
There are two good treatments for window rubber.
Boiled linseed oil may not be as harmful since it dries out and leaves a
water-resistant finish.
Prevention and maintenance work better than restorative measures, as you can
never really restore cracked and hardened rubber. It is vulnerable to
drying, ultra violet radiation, and ozone. Dried rubber allows water to leak
by and lets the body rot process begin on interior floors, around windows,
etc.
From day one you can use glycerin (a non-greasy humectant), dusted with pure
talc. This is the old formula for preserving rubber. If  you've ever seen an
older car with rubber that had a slight glistening effect, this is the talc
you are seeing. It also helps to keep stored rubber products from sticking
together. The talc works to reflect UV's.
The glycerin moisturizes the rubber and keeps it more supple. It has a
residual effect because as a humectant, it attracts air moisture and resists
drying. Don't get any on your paint, though, because glycerin can damage
(soften) some paints. Glycerin will also wash off in a rain or with window
cleaning.
Both glycerin and talc can be applied with brushes.
The newer and better way is with a UV barrier silicone formula like Armor
all. I think that these also have polymers in them. It won't hurt anything
that I know of and can be sprayed on and wiped off and lasts a long time. It
just helps to clean the surfaces really well first because it can seal down
dirt and give a dull look to improperly cleaned surfaces. You can use a
glycerin castille soap on rubber, or any mild detergent as long as it's
rinsed thoroughly. A detergent and brush will give better results with
deeply soiled areas.
Also I would highly recommend a product in a yellow bottle called "Rain-X"
for treating your windows before the rainy season begins. Once tried, always
preferred. You only need to use your windshield wipers in a heavy rain and
it greatly improves visibility and the ever-desireable "Fahrfergn|gen".


> Try with linseed oil works very good on my rubbers 1977 Westy too.
>
> From the sunny lands of Caracas Venezuela
>
> Roberto
