From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 24 Nov 2005 13:54:30 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Wiring problems, was Re: [VB] Starter won't turn over with key

In a message dated 11/24/2005 10:18:24 A.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
jamie(-at-)kookymathteacher.com writes:

>>Then I went to the rear to get power straight from the battery  to the 
solenoid and 
got the starter to whirl,  Frankly, I am  stumped.  What wisdom can you lay 
upon this Kooky Math Teacher.  Do  you think that a hot start relay may help my 
dilemma?  <<



Hi Jamie,
Having a test light tell you that some electricity through, tells you  
nothing.  Get a multimeter from a FLAPS or hardware store.  Then check  voltage at 
the battery (make sure it has a full charge, not fully charged may  mean 
gen/alt/regulator is not putting out enough voltage) , and throughout  the entire 
wiring system looking for voltage drops along the way.  Also  clean, dielectric 
grease and retighten all wiring connections as you go.   See type2.com library 
for headlight switch repair and solder each set of  brass clips in the 
1961-67 fuse box together.  DO NOT forget that there are  two grounding cables that 
require the same cleaning/tightening attention.   Throw out any battery cables 
with repair clamps on them, and replace with new  cables with swedged ends on 
them.  If in doubt replace cables to see if one  is bad.  BTDT!
After that:
  Take out battery and have load tested at FLAPS.
  Take out starter and its solenoid and replace with known good  starter with 
solenoid.
  Lastly you should remove engine and inspect starter bushing.   If you can 
wiggle the starter shaft inside it visably it needs replacing.   Yes, VW had a 
"Go/No Go" gauge and special bushing remover to do this with  engine in.  
Without these tools it is not a good thing to try to do it with  engine in.  We 
have heard of others using a tap to grab the bushing, BUT if  bushing is worn 
enough and/or it is the very thin 6 volt in 12 volt tranny  you can damage the 
bushing bore in the tranny!!
  Adding a starter solenoid or hot start relay is lame.  If there  is a 
problem starting it either is something a relay will not fix, OR even if it  did 
fix it, would leave all or part of your electrical system not working as  well.  
Leaving one with dimmer headlights, signals, taillights, slower  wipers, less 
horn, etc......
Eric&Barb
