From: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 26 Nov 2005 0:46:19 -0500
Subject: Re: Loose connectors, tail light - 71 bus.

> From: J&OK <o_sconet(-at-)yahoo.com>
> Date: Fri, 25 Nov 2005 11:19:51 -0800
> 
> The connectors at the back are loose, and sometimes
> cut-out.

Are the wires loose on the terminal tabs, or is the
lamp holder loose in the reflector?  If the wires are
loose, sometimes you can re-bend the terminal tabs to
work better, but sometimes not.  If the lamp holder is
loose in the reflector, the lamp will flicker, since
it grounds through the reflector.  If this is happening,
a partial fix is to put a small hose clamp around the
lamp holder, and trap the stripped end of a piece of
wire under the hose clamp.  Run the other end of this
wire to a good ground, like either end of the battery
ground strap.  The lamp and lamp holder will still
rattle around in the reflector, but at least the lamp
won't flicker.

> Can I replace just the bulb-holder, it looks like I can
> pry the front tabs off and slip it out, but I cant find
> a replacement via on-line search.

I tried doing this on one of the original tail lights
on my '64.  The lamp holder was loose in the reflector.
You can indeed pry up the tabs and remove the lamp
holder; the trick is then to find a replacement lamp
holder that will fit.  The FLAPS sells a few "generic"
lamp holders that are designed to snap into a circular
hole - they have a ring of tabs around the lamp socket.
All of these I found, though, need a much bigger hole,
like 0.75"-1" or 20-25 mm, than the 0.5" or 13 mm hole
in the stock tailights.  I didn't feel like cutting up
the reflector I had, so I just went with an entire
replacement assembly.

The tail lights on early bay-windows are the same as
late splitties, but the bays eventually got the red-
yellow-white 3-lamp tail lights.  I think the red-yellow-
white lamps are made the same way as the earlier lights,
though.  If you have other things you want to ask about
your '71, you might get better answers on our sister list,
type2(-at-)type2.com , which is for '68-'79 Buses.

Matt Roberds
