From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'VintageBus list'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Nov 2005 20:28:28 -0500
Subject: new gas tank install...and more...

Well I've wanted to install a shutoff valve on the tank...as well as install
a gas heater among other things.

So I've been trying to make sure I've got all the parts for the project. 

I ordered a 
shut-off valve  	211 209 021 D (fuel tap)
screen 		111 209 147 A
sealing rings 	111 209 139

VDO sending unit	271 919 051 B (this doesn't sound like an original
vw #

So when I am putting all this together I am thinking of the following order
I just want to make sure I got it right...

Take sender, slide cork like gasket over and install into large hole on top
of tank. Do I use any type of sealant here, or is the gasket enough? What
type of screws should I use here, the sender did not come with any, can I
re-use my old ones...or should I get new ones, are they just large
self-tapping screws? Should they be stainless or galvanized? I am worried
about using something that might react with fuel.

Next flip tank over.

Fit fuel screen thru one of the sealing rings, then insert in small hole at
bottom of tank, next comes another sealing ring then insert fuel tap, and
tighten onto tank. I got a tap with a knob on the side(with the hope that
I'd be able to shut off the fuel flow when ever I wanted) but I'm not sure I
got the right one [211 209 021 D (fuel tap)]. Does anyone know if this is
the right one, it seems like twisting the knob on the side is more likely to
switch the tank from open to reserve, and not off. I looked at the
Bentley-but it looks different than the one I got.

What do you guys use for felt packing under the gas tank? Would a wad of tar
paper make sense? Or should I try to really get felt? seems to me like felt
would just absorb water and cause rust issues.

I am hoping to somehow paint the engine compartment area, maybe sandblast or
something like that....then some heavy duty paint(I know paint is another
discussion altogether, I think based on previous list discussion about this,
I've picked the right paint)

Thanks for any suggestions/comments about this procedure...

-kevin
'71 sqbk
'65 kombi
somerville, ma 
