Date: Mon, 28 Nov 2005 19:07:16 -0700
To: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] new gas tank install...and more...

>shut-off valve 	211 209 021 D (fuel tap)

for my 70, i bought the barndoor tap, either 021 or 021A, i fergit - 
it has a lever on side for on/off/res. i never bothered to rig up a 
cable from the cab; i just crawl under and swing away. i also 
modified the tap inlets a la veewees.  works for me.
barndoors had a small hole in the fender well near the right rear 
tire, in which you inserted a looooooong sorta-slotted-churchkey, 
snagged the tap lever, and turned. thanks to clara for my copy of the 
OG instructions! i am now awaiting a  big rusthole on my bus to 
finish perforating in the correct place so i can do it this way, too.
>
>of tank. Do I use any type of sealant here, or is the gasket enough?

the gasket is s'posed to work... but my philosophy is a tiny film of 
gasgacinch can't hurt. except where it can!
so yeah, i put a bit on the tank side.

>got the right one [211 209 021 D (fuel tap)]. Does anyone know if this is
>the right one, it seems like twisting the knob on the side is more likely to
>switch the tank from open to reserve, and not off.

mine goes  lever forward: OFF. lever down: ON  lever rear: reserve. 
if you do the veewee mod (involves yoinking a brass inlet tube so 
'reserve' no longer exists; this prevents water buildup and rust in 
tank), you just need to remember which way is off.


>when threading the fuel tap on, do I need to use a sealant on the threads?
i didn't, and i usually have a thin layer of goopy varnish drooling 
from the tap. so it weeps, but not too bad. i'll fix it someday.

with the filter in the tap, and a filter in the pump (i have the 
rebuildable OG style with removable screens), you can take those 
crappy plastic filters out from betwixt the carb and pump. one less 
failure point!
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
