From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'VintageBus list'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 Dec 2005 00:10:50 -0500
Subject: underside update...

Just an fyi...

I've finally gotten around to sandblasting the underside of my bus. Kind of
fun, definitely tiring. I got my mechanic to let me borrow a lift in the
corner of his lot. This is one of those portable kind. I lifted the bus up
took the wheels off, and got his sandblaster out. It did not work quite
right...fiddle with it for about 30 minutes...then just went to home depot
to get their siphon version. His had a cartridge above, which I imagined
would get quite heavy over the day-plus I'd need to keep refilling it. The
home depot version cost about $12, worth the cost. Oh yeah I'm using black
beauty...$17/100 lb bag. About 1 bag will do the underside-although your
mileage will vary according to amount of rust...

I blasted away for a few hours, face shield, fleece hat and coat, work
gloves and one of those organic vapor masks from 3M. Worked pretty good-the
tough part was seeing under the bus, as it was kind of bright out today, so
my eyes had trouble adjusting seeing under the bus, plus the face shield was
not super clear.

I was able to blast the front end area and all along either side, but due to
the design of the lift I could not get to the center section.

After blasting-I took a break for lunch...then back over to the lot-I
checked out my morning work. Hit a couple spots that looked like they could
use a little more work. Then I blew it all clean. Basically some really nice
clean shiny metal spots, some original paint, and some rust...

I am using Master Series Paint. The silver primer coat for the first two
coats. I got one coat on today...some warnings if anyone else uses this. It
will eat through plastic cups...or it ate through the plastic cup I was
using-leaked all over my boots before I realized it. It also eats through
foam brushes-I should have brought more. It goes on real smooth-pretty much
no brush strokes at all! I got one coat on before I needed to go. Tomorrow
morning I'll get a 2nd coat on, then in the afternoon I'll topcoat. It looks
real slick in silver, but I guess the silver should not be used as a top
coat, and I don't think I have enough silver to do 3 coats.

Next week I'm going to get the center section. 

I have been wanting to do this for a long time. I only wish I had my own
shop-so I could spend more time with it up in the air, but no such luck...I
figure it is better to get this paint on instead of waiting until I get my
own shop...as I don't know when that will happen.

-kevin
'71 sqbk
'65 kombi
somerville, ma 
