Date: Wed, 03 Jul 2002 16:12:48 -0500
From: "Jim Bryant" <B10JPB1(-at-)wpo.cso.niu.edu>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: VW Transporter Spec Guide NEATO Deal

I really don't want to rain on Ronnie's parade about this book.  He's in
business and does a great service to bus owners and VintageBus listees.
We are all looking forward to holding the new edition in our hands. 
I'll just add that NEATO has secured a good quanity of the book (ETA
8/15/2002) and has a good deal for NEATO members.  If you're a NEATO
member, "check" us out.  If not, join NEATO and get the $5 discount.

I've communicated with Dave Eccles numerous times over the past few
years.  This book is a real labor of love for him.  All of us bus lovers
stand to gain by his efforts to get this published.  The following
write-up summarizes the book:

VW Transporter and Microbus Specification Guide 1950-1967
Edited by David Eccles
96 pages, over 400 photographs.

In 1998 the first "Spec Guide" book was published, a collaborative
effort
of members of NEATO, Split Screen Van Club and Bulli-Kartei. Sometime
soon, the newly revised, and greatly expanded VW Transporter and
Microbus Specification Guide 1950-1967, will be published.

This publication brings together the complete history of the
Volkswagen
Splitscreen Transporter, produced from 1950-1967. It traces the
development
from Ben Pon's famous sketch, through the prototypes and into
production,
and all the specification changes, month by month, over the 17 years
of
production.

By referring to the book, owners can find the original factory
specifications of their own vehicle, whether it be paint colors and
codes,
factory fitted optional equipment or even the precise date of
manufacture.
The various model types are clearly identified, and also specific
features,
colors and options for each model, year-by-year.

Over 400 photographs illustrate the changes in design and styling over
the
years and many rare and beautiful buses are featured. In particular,
the
variety of Special Models and unusual uses is well documented and
illustrated, through both archival and period photographs and
photographs
of buses as they still are today. A section on Transporters at Work
covers
commercial use from the first ever Transporter to be sold (to the 4711
Perfume Company) right up to the present day, while a separate chapter
deals with use by the emergency services. Transporters produced in
Australia, South Africa and Brazil are also featured, along with the
history and specifications of these versions produced outside Germany.

Bus enthusiasts worldwide have willingly shared their knowledge in the
compilation of this unique publication, which has taken five years to
collate.

Whether you are contemplating a serious restoration, or just a lover
of
this distinctive "bus with a face," this book will provide you with a
myriad of information and hours of fascination.

List price: $29.95. NEATO member price: $23 postpaid (add $3 for Canada
and
overseas mailing). Non-member price: $28 postpaid (add $3 for Canada
and
overseas mailing).

Check your latest OBR or pmail me for ordering information

-Jim Bryant
jbryant(-at-)niu.edu
