From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 5 Jul 2002 21:29:07 -0400
Subject: dim headlights/voltage ?'s

ok I have a stock 6Volt system in a '65 kombi. my headlights have been dim
for a long time, i have tried everything...i think. I am looking for more
suggestions.

I took the headlight switch apart, and resoldered all the connections in
it(the switch no longer gets hot) headlights a good bit brighter. I cleaned
all the contacts on the fuse box. I cleaned every contact I could
find(except the little ones behind the speedometer, as I am not sure i want
to take the speedometer out.

I checked the voltage at the headlight-it is around 4.8-4.9. I tried using a
ground directly to the ground strap at the battery from the ground of the
headlight-no difference. I checked the voltage at the dimmer switch on the
floor. It appears to lose about .3-.5 volts in the dimmer switch. Has anyone
ever taken one of these apart and soldered the connections(in a similar
fashion to the headlight switch)- seems doable.

I disconnected the headlight switch to check the resistance in the switch-
it was around .3  ohms. This is the same as when i touch the testers
directly to each other~I think that the soldering worked out fine.

I checked the voltage of the fuses for the wiper motor with it on-it was
just over 6 volts-no problem there. The fuses for the headlight switch
around 4.9-5.0. The wires behind the headlight switch get awful hot while
driving with headlights on- particularly the white and black one which I
believe goes to the dimmer, and the heavy red one which goes to the fuse
box.

I think the regulator is fine for a couple reasons-the PO gave me a new one,
but told me he had the old one tested-and they told him it was fine. He had
it tested trying to figure out why the red light in the speedo glowed while
driving with headlights on. With all the work i have done the glow has gone
way down. The other reason I think the regulator is fine is that the
headlights dont get radically brighter when i rev the engine-just a little
bit brighter...

by the way should all my fuses be white? I have from left to right-6 white
fuses than 2 red ones. It appears according to the wiring diagram-from
august '62 that all the fuses should be white.


thanks

-kevin
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk


