From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Sat, 6 Jul 2002 19:11:35 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] dim headlights/voltage ?'s

Thanks for the info...this is what i tried.

First I got a double ended spade connector and hooked it up between the
white/black wire and the yellow one at the dimmer. Tester at headlight:
Before: 4.6 volts
after: 4.95 volts

This appears to indicate a drop of ~.35 volts in the dimmer. not great but
maybe acceptable.

Next I tried your tests as followed...pulled out far right fuse-it was a 16
amp fuse, and red. Turn headlight on low. Measured battery voltage at
battery terminals-6.15 volts. Next I measured at one of the fuse clips, top
clip was zero, and the bottom clip 5.93 volts.

Next I checked the voltage between terminal 30(fat red wire) and the far
right fuse. Here I got a reading of .26 volts.

Next between the terminal 56 (black and white wire),Here I got a reading of
.35 volts.

Next I moved the black tester over to the far left fuse....here I get 1.01
volts. This is the largest culprit I beleive. You indicate that this
probably means either a bad dimmer switch, or the wires formt he dimmer
switch to the fuse panel and headlight switch need work. Due to the fact
that when I skipped using the dimmer I got an additional .35 volts-what
happened to the other 1.15 volts? I imagine it is the wiring between the
headlight switch and the dimmer or between the dimmer and the fuse box. I
think I will try ot run a new wire directly betweent the dimmer and the fuse
box. The a new one to the headlight switch. Is there any way to get more
slack out of the wires goin to the headlight switch, I can barely get at
those wires or connectors...

thanks for all your help. I'll keep you all posted as to my progress.

-kevin
'65 kombi
'67 sqbk
somerville, MA


-----Original Message-----
From: Matt Roberds [mailto:mattroberds(-at-)cox.net]
Sent: Saturday, July 06, 2002 6:08 AM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
Subject: Re: [VB] dim headlights/voltage ?'s


>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Fri, 5 Jul 2002 21:29:07 -0400
>
>I cleaned all the contacts on the fuse box.

Fuse contacts and wire tabs both?  I like to clean both of them.
Use a small wire brush or maybe some sandpaper on the push-on tabs,
and try a wire brush on the push-on receptacles.  You might also
try crimping the push-on receptacle further closed so it fits
tighter on the tab - but be careful, as some of the OG ones I have
tried this with break when I do it.  It's not a big tragedy to put
a new end on the wire, unless you are trying to keep your Bus 100%
original.

Of course, when fooling with the fuse box, disconnect the battery
ground strap before doing anything.

Did you clean the lugs on the back of the headlight bulbs
themselves?

>I checked the voltage at the headlight-it is around 4.8-4.9.

Not too good.  Incandescent bulbs are non-linear things; if you
are 5% low on voltage you are 16% low on light output.  The low
beam of a 6006 sealed-beam is rated for 6.2V, so at 4.8V, you are
at about 77% of rated voltage and only around _40%_ of rated light
output!

>It appears to lose about .3-.5 volts in the dimmer switch.

One thing you could try is to put two male push-ons on a short
piece of 14 gauge or better wire and just jump around the dimmer
switch - unplug the white/black and yellow wires from the switch
and plug them on to your wire.  Don't let the push-ons ground out
on the floor or on the switch body.  If this improves things you
know the dimmer switch is suspect.

>Has anyone ever taken one of these apart and soldered the
>connections(in a similar fashion to the headlight switch)-
>seems doable.

Never have.  Be careful on disassembly as there should be a spring
in there somewhere that might go flying across the garage - not
dangerous, you just don't want to lose it.  If you want to try a new
one I'm fairly sure that the VW one is very similar to the one used
in older American cars, so you might take yours to your FLAPS and
see if they have something that will work.  If they're being dumb
and insist on having a year and model, tell them a '70 Chevy or Ford
pick-up.

>I disconnected the headlight switch to check the resistance in the
>switch- it was around .3  ohms. This is the same as when i touch the
>testers directly to each other~I think that the soldering worked out
>fine.

This sounds OK, especially considering that you said the switch doesn't
get hot anymore.

There are two basic ways to look for voltage drop - measure voltage to
ground on both sides of something and subtract, or just measure the
voltage across the thing directly.  For example, on the headlight
switch, you'd turn on the headlights and measure from terminal 30
(red wire) to terminal 56 (white/black stripe).  Put the red probe
on the terminal that is "closest" to the battery - in this case
terminal 30.  Lower voltage readings are better.  The advantage
of doing this is that you can often use a lower voltage range on
your meter, like 0-2V instead of 0-20V, to get better resolution.

>I checked the voltage of the fuses for the wiper motor with it on-it
>was just over 6 volts-no problem there.

This should be the far right fuse.  If you are getting 6+ volts there
it means the feed from the back of the Bus is probably good.

>The fuses for the headlight switch around 4.9-5.0.

There isn't a fuse for the headlight switch feed (red wire).  It's
fed directly from the battery with no fuse.  You might mean the four
left fuses for low/high left/right beams.  If you do, and you measured
4.9 to 5.0 at those fuses, and you are getting 4.8 to 4.9 at the
headlights, that means you're only getting 0.1 V drop from the fuses
to the headlights which is not too bad.  The big drop is happening
somewhere in the headlight switch or dimmer switch.

>The wires behind the headlight switch get awful hot while driving
>with headlights on- particularly the white and black one which I
>believe goes to the dimmer, and the heavy red one which goes to
>the fuse box.

That's a clue.  There might still be some bad connections at the
headlight switch - not inside the switch, but where the wires are
connected, or possibly the crimping of the push-ons to the wires.
It's possible for most of the strands in a wire to break inside
the insulation, leaving one or two strands to carry the juice and
get hot.  I had this happen on a battery charger once.  If the
wires are much easier to bend than they should be, then this may
be what has happened.

>I think the regulator is fine for a couple reasons-

I agree.  You'd notice your battery going dead or losing water if
it wasn't.  You found that you can get 6+ volts to the front - you're
just having trouble getting it to the headlights.

>With all the work i have done the glow has gone way down.

That's a good thing.

>by the way should all my fuses be white?

As far as I can tell, yes.

Here's what I'd try:

Pull out the far right fuse in the fuse block and turn on the
headlights on low beam.  Measure the battery voltage at the
battery, right at the terminals.  Then, measure between ground
and both empty clips for the far right fuse.  One of them should
have battery voltage on it - this should be very close to what you
measured at the battery.  If not, the wire from back to front, or
its connections, need work.

Keep the red probe at the far right fuse clip with battery voltage
and move the black one to terminal 30 (red wire) on the headlight
switch.  You want to see 0 volts on the meter - if you get more
than about 0.1 volts, then the red wire between the fuse box and
the headlight switch, or its connections, need work.  Whatever
reading you get, remember it.

Keep the red probe in the same spot and move the black one to terminal
56 (white/black stripe wire) at the headlight switch.  Again you're
looking for 0 volts, or at least, nothing more than you measured in
the previous step.  If not, then the connections at the headlight
switch need work (the switch itself is probably OK since you soldered
it).

Keep the red probe in the same spot and move the black one to the
far left fuse (left low beam) in the fuse box.  You want 0 volts or
at least no more than the reading you got two steps ago.  If you get
more, then the dimmer switch or the wires from the dimmer switch to
the fuse panel and headlight switch need work.

I'm not working on the ground side here since you said that running
a ground from the headlights to the battery didn't improve things.
If you do want to check the headlight ground, get a long piece of
wire, connect it to the battery negative terminal, and run the
other end up front.  Put the black probe on this wire and the red
probe on the ground terminal (brown wire) at the headlight - you'll
have to take the headlight apart.  You want 0 V, 0.1 V is OK, anything
more and you have troubles on the ground side.

With all the stuff you've done already, I think that this testing
should isolate the problem.

Let us know what you find out.  Good luck!

Matt Roberds



