Date: Thu, 6 Nov 2008 01:14:57 -0500 (EST)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] So, what do we need to do to prop up the Type2 list?

On Wed, 5 Nov 2008, Mike Soultanian wrote:


> I think the best thing to do would be to remove as much of the
> administrative overhead as possible

That would be "remove the mailing lists"  (or limit the control of them,
which in the end, in my experienced option, results in the same thing.)


> services as well).  We're making this much more difficult than it needs
> to be.


You've never tried to keep a bunch of rowdy spammy offtopic jetta loving
deadhead nazi hippie ebay promoting geeks on topic.    :-)


If we only have the basic tools that free (and most pay) mailing list
providers offer, we have much less control to keep things "family" and
"friendly" and "on topic" which are all things people have emphasised they
want the list to remain.   Generally, you have "add" "remove" "moderate
all emails" and "moderate new subscriptions/subscribers" and very little
else.  Frequently you don't even have "ban" options.    No ability
to log /why/ someone was removed, or banned.  (I can tell you why anyone
was removed or banned from the list, and by whom, back to 1999.  Data
before that is a bit fuzzy).   I can tell you if you were unsubscribed
automaticly because of too many bounces.  I can tell you /when/ you
subscribed or unsubscribed, and how you did it.   We usually answer no
less than 1 of these questions per week, even now.   During our peak, that
was hundreds per week.

I can tell you that we delivered precisely 1 email since midnight eastern
time to msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu, and that it was accepted by your mailserver at
00:17:02.  If it had bounced, I could tell you that and why.  Both of
those details allow your email server admin to track down why you never
recieved an email from, even though we sent it.  We answer those
questions, too.

Things like the quote filter keep the digest version of the list readable
(that's 350 subscribers for type2), and the archives halfway sane.  Can
you imagine trying to read a digest with 30 emails in it, and every one of
them complete-quotes at least 1 other (which usually complete-quotes at
least one other...)?


Variously we've had to add other custom filters to manage traffic:  When
the decision was made (not lightly!) to ban promotion of ebay auctions, we
were able to custom write a filter to automaticly bounce most of them.
Without that, we'd have been "warning" people, and begging that they stop.
Failing that, we'd have to remove their subscription, and maybe even ban
them.  (if you missed this era, well...the policy was voted on, and the
charter amended).


These are just a few of the tools and tricks and customizations that we've
built to make it possible to keep this list together, and focused.   We'd
have been dead from spam and jetta discussion a long time ago without
them.  (fwiw, we've removed only 1 subscriber in november of 2000 for
refusing to stop discussing repair of his jetta. removal was done by steve
dolan, who was on duty at the time)

Another feature, and it's a feature that at least last time I evaluated
mailing list software was very rare, is the ability for the mailing list
itself to monitor bounced emails.  Traditional list managers simply send
the bounces to the human administrators.  The admins have to scan through
them and figure out why they bounced, and what should be done.  Instead,
we have basically a little software robot that measures how many bounces
an address generated during a period. If you reach the threshold, it sends
a test message. (many of you have seen that).  If the test bounces, it
removes you.  Before we had this feature, we did this by hand.  Our
removal log shows 800 email addresses that we manually removed for bounces
between 6/99 and 2/02.


Obviously, these don't really "show" to most of the subscribers...and yes,
you can run mailing lists without them.  But should you?  Should we?



-- 
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign     David Raistrick '66 SO-44 Westy
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail     keen(-at-)type2.com          in Orlando Fl
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail http://www.netmeister.org/news/learn2quote.html
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail          http://www.expita.com/nomime.html
