From: "Martin Jr., D. Michael" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 7 Nov 2008 09:47:18 -0600
Subject: 1776sp (was 30PICT... and others)

First of all, let me say, "Thanks!" to EVERYONE.  The list and individuals
emails I have had sharing suggestions and offering parts and help is exactly
why this list is so wonderful.  As a "techie computer guy", I use the web and
discussion boards a lot as a resource but this good old fashion email listserv
with its wonderful members is why I still have and love my bus so much.  Thank
you all!

Now... to the subject of this discussion...  I have had a few questions from
individuals and from the list about specifics and I went home last night and
looked around my garage and have a bit more to share.

Here is each point from various posters and emails...


X  Can you give us a few more details.  Exactly which carb is on the motor, a
30 PICT-1, a 30 PICT-2, or a 30 PICT-3?
On my 1776sp is a 30PICT-2.  I looked around the garage and I was mistaken
about "spare" 30PICTs.  I have two 28PICT carbs and a 34PICT-3.


X  HP is all about airflow efficiency. [The] easiest thing would be to go with
a 34PICT with an adaptor plate

X  I tried both a new 30 PICT and new 34 PICT to see which performed better
with the new engine. The 34PICT was obviously better and I haven't looked
back.

X  I would suggest you devise a way to put the 34[pict] on there

X  go with a 34PICT with an adaptor plate

X  I have not used one of the adapters but think they ought to be reversible.
. .

X  I wonder if you could flip the adapter upside down?

X  I looked at my stash and found a manifold center (with vacuum nipple) that
accommodates a 34 PICT 3 plus the single port end pieces.
Given all this, my game plan is going to be to see if I can find an adapter
plate and fit my 34PICT-3 to my existing intake.  If anyone knows if the
adapter plate can be reversed that would greatly help.  If that doesn't work,
then I am planning to make a "hybrid" intake from taking the mid section out
of an old dual port intake and mating it to the two end pieces of an old
single port intake that I have.  Since swapping out the intake would require
pulling my motor, I am hoping the adapter plate idea will work (any ideas?).

In the meantime, I am going to try to swap out the exhaust on my bus with
another one I have.  I am afraid that the mustache bar will get in the way,
however.  If anyone has any suggestions and advice they would like to give on
that it would be great.  Especially if the exhaust idea is a cheap solution.

Once again, thank you all for being such a great resource and I hope we can
all work together to keep us all together.


-          Michael Martin in Montevallo, Alabama
