Date: Mon, 10 Nov 2008 15:40:30 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Replacing clutch return spring

Well, my clutch return spring broke, so I thought I'd document the
procedure:

Tools:
Snap ring pliers, right angle
triple square socket for CV bolts.
Small vise grip pliers
Big vise grip pliers
Big screwdriver
Small hammer
Jack
Jack stands
Wheel chocks

You're going to be under the bus, so chock the wheels and support the left
rear corner of the bus carefully.
Remove the left rear wheel.
Clean the grunge from around the CV joints on the left axle
Remove the left axle.  Bag the ends to keep them clean.
(you may be able to do this without removing the axle, but putting the new
spring on requires some working room.)
Remove the clutch cable wing nut.
There are two places from which you will work.  One is with your head in
the left wheel well looking end-on to the clutch shaft.  The other is from
underneath.  Neither is convenient or comfortable.
Remove the clutch lever
snap ring (I found this pretty tough because
I only had a straight snap ring tool.  If you have a right angle tool it
will be much easier.
Slide the clutch lever off, along with the broken spring.
Put the new spring on, straight tang towards transmission and on top of
the tab on the transmission case.
Replace the clutch lever.  Tap it in with the hammer and a screwdriver
until the snap ring groove is visible.
Replace the snap ring.  Make sure it is fully seated in its groove.
Now the tough part (and the reason you removed the axle).
Using a big screwdriver, lever the spring around the inside of the lever
and put the hooked end around the lever.  Be careful that you don't put
yourself in the position of getting injured if something lets go.
Raise the clutch pedal and hold it in place by clamping it lightly with a
small vise-grips.
Reinstall the wing nut on the clutch lever.
Adjust the pedal free play to about an inch.
Reinstall the axle.  If the boots have cracks this is a good time to
replace them.  Torque to 25 ft-lb.
Replace the wheel.
Remove jack stands and chocks.

Enjoy your new springer clutch!
