From: "Randy Huyck" <Fritz_H(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Wetwesties"
Date: Wed, 20 Aug 2003 19:15:38 -0700
Subject: Fixed Again

Two years ago (27 months, to be exact), Bob, the '75 Rustfalia quit on us
outside Brinnon, WA, on the way to a WetWesties campout in Port Angeles.
The tow truck ride home was lovely.  I was too ticked off at my bus dying on
its second outing after getting a new-to-me used engine that I parked it on
the side of the house so I wouldn't have to look at it.  Today, I finally
got around to working on it and had it running in 20 (yes, I said twenty)
minutes.  Turns out the brand new condenser I had installed prior to the
trip decided to come un-welded from its bracket.  Without that bracket, it
could not ground and produce a spark.

If there were VW police out there confiscating Volkwagens from the unworthy,
I'd be looking at a driveway with three oilspots and a Ford pickup in it.

After sitting for that length of time, the rust has continued to creep, the
windshield has mysteriously cracked (a golf ball lies suspiciously in some
nearby weeds), one or more brake cylinders have seized, and the clutch has
rusted shut.

I am torn whether to fix it and either sell or drive it, or to just sell it
as is.

The good:
Fantastic PLFVW poptop canvas with only one or two seasons of use
Four like-new Kirkland (costco) tires in the appropriate load range - less
than 200 miles of use
New manual and electric water pump in the kitchen
Good child hammock
Fridge works
Aux RV battery and installed converter/charger
Repairable BA-6 gas heater (it worked once, then stopped - I suspect an
electrical problem
Runs strong with a 2-barrel solex and manual choke
Electric oil pan heater

The bad:
see above, plus:
Rust is catching up with this bus's Canadian past - rocker panels are rocky,
sliding door track is bad
No stove - Canadian Westy's apparently didn't get LP tanks and stoves
Funky orange crushed velvet interior could use some work
Salvage title (didn't stop USAA from insuring it for me)

Any advice would be welcome.  My butt is sore and my leg muscles cramping
from me kicking myself in the hind end for letting it sit this long for no
good reason.  Hey, if anyone wants to trade a working '85 or newer Westy for
this AND my '85 Vanagon GL as a package...

Randy, Carla & Anna Huyck, Olympia, WA
'75 Rustfalia
'85 Vanagon GL
'74 Super Beetle
'01 Ford F150
