Date: Thu, 21 Aug 2003 08:50:15 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: tank <bedhead(-at-)pacbell.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Update On Alice's Maiden Voyage

On Tue, 19 Aug 2003, tank wrote:

> We've now isolated the horn issue, though we are at a loss for what to do
> about it. She has a disconnected female end on the ground wire from the
> horn, which should connect somewhere around the steering box under the
> floor, but we can find the male end it should attach to. I've read the
> article in the library several times, and so has my housemate, and we both
> must be missing something. (We're both brain-fried and weary at this point.)
> Can anyone please enlighten us as to where this female end connects exactly?
> Everything else looks fine. Multimeter gives us optimism.

The horn circuit is both the simplest and most trying circuit in the
entire bus.

The theory of the horn is that 12V flows from the fuze block to the horn,
then out of the horn up to the horn button at the top of the steering
column.  When you depress the horn button, you complete the circuit by
connecting the wire coming from the horn to earth/ground (the body of the
bus) and the horn sounds.  Simple in theory.  In practice, repairing the
horn will tie you in knots unknow to Ashley.

The easy way to get a functioning horn is to go to any auto parts store
and buy a generic replacement horn button.  Take your volt-ohm meter (VOM
and check both wires leading to the horn. One of these wires will have
+12V running to it when the key is on.  Remove the other wire from the
horn and run a new wire from the now-bare terminal to one contact on the
generic horn button which you should mount conveniently on the dash or
steering column.  On the other contact of the generic horn button attach a
wire and lead it to a sheet metal screw put anywhere out of sight on the
body.  This will give you a working horn.

You *don't* want to know the hard way!

OK, If you do want to know the hard way, let me know.  I have made the
horn on a '73 functional using the stock system, but believe me, it is not
easy.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
