Date: Thu, 21 Aug 2003 15:51:12 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: sethmatteson(-at-)att.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] can't seem to get bus started

On Thu, Aug 21, 2003 at 08:14:23PM +0000, sethmatteson(-at-)att.net wrote:
> question; When the timing mark on the pulley is lined up with the case, where 
> in the range of motion of the #1 intake valve should it be?

seth, the pully will be at TDC 2 times during a complete cycle for
each cyl. one is at TDC of the compression stroke. This is where the
spark fires. The other is (hopefully) right after the piston has
pushed the spent gasses out of the combustion chamber.

If you have done anything like set valves or timing with the pully on
the wrong setting this will make it run crappy. If it doesn't work
after doing some work, and you have no luck getting it to run, start
from ground zero.

1. set the valves. I set the #1 to TDC and start there. I check this
by putting the crank pully at tdc, then rocking it about 40 degrees
each way. If you are on the correct TDC then neither valve for #1
should move. (remember that this is right between building compression
and then firing the plug and the combustion that follows). Turn the
crank anti-clockwise 180 degrees. then set #2. Repeat at 180 degrees
for #3 and then #4. This will set all you valves correctly. Then
rotate the crank another 180 degrees. You should now be at the TDC of
#1 on it's compression stroke.

2. check distributor drive. Pull the distributor and look down. The
dist drive should have the recessed section. It should be the same
orientation as the crank, that is it runs side to side and not front
to back. Now you have confirmed that the drive is set in correctly.

3. set point gap. hey, might as well while it's out of the bus :)

4. check distributor. Reinsert the distributor and make sure it seats
correctly. Pull the cap and look to see where the rotor is pointing.
There should be a small marking on the rim of the distributor. A hard
to see line. The rotor should point toward this mark. If not rotate
the distributor till it lines up. Your bus "should" start and run with
this set as timing. At least enough to set the timing.

5. Pull all the wires on the dist cap. Start with #1 cyl and put the
plug into the cap plug that the rotor pointed toward. Repeat the
process anticlockwise around the dist cap for #2,3 & 4 in that order.

6. reconnect the main wire to the coil and see if it starts.

If you take a step back and repeat all these things I believe it will
start , I suspect there is something you overlooked the last time
around. If this works, then it's time to actually set the dwell w/ a
dwell meter and to set the timing with a strobe light. HTH


-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
