Date: Thu, 21 Aug 2003 16:05:11 -0500
From: Todd Kuzma <tullio(-at-)TheRamp.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Popping on deceleration - solved!

My '76 Bus has been having this problem of popping during deceleration for
some time now.  I checked the archives and found a number of folks with
similar problems and some suggestions for fixing them.

I tried adjusting the timing, but it was dead on.  My motor is a 1976 2.0
liter, but it has dual Webers instead of fuel injection.  So, I tried
adjusting the idle mixture.  No improvement.  However, I did notice that one
cylinder didn't seem to respond to changes in the mixture screw.

I started looking under the Bus for an exhaust leak.  Everything looked good
until I saw that one of the studs was missing from the head on the same
cylinder that wouldn't respond to mixture adjustment.  "Eureka!" I thought.

I didn't want to mess with replacing the stud and I was going out of town
for a few days so I dropped the Bus by my local VW mechanic.  When I got
back he said that he replaced the stud BUT the popping was still there!  A
day or two later he called to say that the intake manifold gasket had burned
up on the same cylinder causing a vacuum leak.  "Eureka!" I thought.

He replaced the gasket, BUT the popping was still there!  This was getting
frustrating!  He checked the vacuum line for the brake booster which was run
off of the intake manifold on that side.  When we added the carbs, we had to
drill and tap the manifold to get brake boost.  The line and fitting looked
good, but when he took the line off and blocked the hole in the manifold,
the problem went away.  "Eureka!" I though.  But driving without power
brakes kinda sucks.

Fortunately, my creative mechanic friend followed the vacuum line from the
manifold to the booster.  Somewhere under the Bus he found a spot in the
line where a previous owner had spliced in a plastic "t".  One end of the
"t" was open.  There is your vacuum leak!  Problem solved.

So, if anyone else still has popping problems on deceleration.  Keep
looking.  Following all the leads.  You never know where you'll find your
solution.

Todd Kuzma
Heron Bicycles
Tullio's Big Dog Cyclery
LaSalle, IL  815-223-1776
http://www.heronbicycles.com
http://www.tullios.com
