From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com'" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 21 Aug 2003 16:23:59 -0500
Subject: Re isolator , locating.. solution found (long winded as usual)

	James & Esteemed List:

	James here (but I usually go by Jim) - I just saw your post on
digest mode...  you wroted thusly:

	"...Just talked to the battery guy as well and it seems that my
issue shouldn't be too hard to fix and implement.  The red wire comes off
the alternator which I splice into and connect to the Battery Isolator.
Since the main battery is already in a circuit I don't have to separate it
and connect to the isolator (it will charge normally).  The isolator will
keep the other battery separate and charge it when needed."

	Right - the heavy red lead off the alternator can also be directly
connected to your "other" battery.  I'm no EE either (but I can look like
one on TV), what I did on my '72 Westy Weekender was to place the starter
battery in complete isolation, i.e. only used to start the vehicle.  In a
nutshell, the lead off the starter lug (to the front of the bus and the fuse
block) was disconnected, then lengthened and reconnected over to the deep
cycle (DC) battery (my "other" battery).  The alternator charge lead was
then lengthened/connected to the DC battery.  A third lead (from the DC) was
fabricated and sent off to one side of the isolator, a lead out of the other
side of the isolator was fabricated and connected to the starter battery.
All fabricated leads and/or extensions were made of 10 gauge wire, crimped,
soldered and triple shrink-tubed.

	Voila!  When the engine is up and running, both batteries are linked
and charging via the isolator; when shut down all "key-off" loads (lights,
radio, accessories) are connected to the DC battery.  The starter battery
sits in lonely grandeur, fully charged and ready to go at the twist of a
key!

	If you are running a less expensive "diode-type" isolator, you are
also going to face another problem (don't shoot me, m'kay...), which is
compounded by the need for a higher charging voltage when are running "new
school" maintenance free batteries.  The diode isolator will cause a voltage
drop across it (ouch!) and the old Bosch voltage regulator is set to charge
"old school" flooded batteries at the lowest possible charge rate to avoid
boiling the electrolyte.  St. George of Lyle can 'splain "diode drop" for
all us non-physics major goobers!  St. George - Brother, where art thou??
You will need to come up with a higher charge rate regulator, an adjustable
regulator, or drop some big bux and get a 3 phase, marine regulator like a
Balmar ARS-4 (US$180 3 years ago at finer boating goods stores everywhere).

	If you want a better quality isolator which WON'T cause voltage
drops, check out Hellroaring Technologies in beautiful Polson, MT - they're
on the web (though I haven't checked recently).  The diagrams on their web
site provided the impetus to do the "starting battery in full isolation"
thing.  See the BIC-73150 they sell, but bring the bux again (US$150 3 years
ago, with optional remote switcher box).

	And finally, your dual battery system will give the best life if all
the batteries are approximately the same age and of the same type.  I went
for Optimas, as I wanted bullet proof - 3 years ago I was planning an
extended stay south of the (U.S.) border with NO electrical problems.  I
won't tell you what they cost, nor will I tell you about the 4 15 watt solar
panels I bought either.  They were less money than before all the Y2K
"impending doom" hype ;-)

	The only trouble with doing mods like this, is this - you either do
it right or you just stay on the Boat of Stock-dom.  The second you stray
from the path of OE, you start up the long slippery slope of defining a new
and higher order of Spec.  It's do-able, just bring money - LOTS of money
;-)

	Jim Hayden
	STILL Driving The Usual Air-Cooled Suspects
	www.savethebays.org
