From: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 01:46:50 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: AC in Southern Buses

> Sayeth Mark:

> a Volkswagen bus flies in the face of maintaining
> a competitive edge in our world, south or west. There is no reason to
> compound it. If you are competing with people who have AC in their cars
> (for composure, better odor, unwrinkled clothing, etc.), it's kind of
> foolish not to get that edge if you can.
>
> It's really that simple.  Never mind how it was in the past. In the
> past, when one of us drove a vehicle without AC, there were other
> people driving without AC, too. That's almost never the case anymore.

Never buy an argument that is presented as "really that simple". :-)  
By that competitive-edge logic, couldn't one also argue that you should 
swap out to a Subaru engine (no sense in losing that edge of 
acceleration and cruising speed), add crash protection to current 
standards, etc.?  Seems like those would be more competitive mods than 
a luxury item like AC.  Look around you on a hot day and marvel at how 
many people aren't using AC (whether it's broke or they're heat pervs).

> There's no point whatsoever in becoming known as "that sweaty guy who
> drives the Volkswagen bus."

Well, you'd be surprised at what some folks will do for notoriety, but 
I agree there's little in it that attracts me.  I am very lucky, I 
guess.  My commute is so short that neither heat nor AC do much good.  
I look rumpled even with AC, and so far no one tells me I stink after 
driving the bus.  I try to dress for the climate.  Stop for a swim at 
springs on road trips.  Park in the shade & crack a window, etc.  It's 
not fun roasting in the 5:00 July sun, but as far as suffering goes, 
it's minor-league stuff.

Then quoth David:

> If by spoiled, you mean I desire to get where I'm going without 
> smelling
> funky, then yes, I'm spoiled.  :-)
> If by spoiled, you mean I desire to have my wife and kids accompany me 
> on
> trips in my bus, then yes, I'm spoiled.  :-)

OK, you're spoiled!  But in the former case, try deodorant. :-)

> Put me solidly in the camp of those-who-are-not-ashamed-to-use-A/C.

It uses more gas and puts more heat in the environment, just to make 
you feel better.  Oh, I use it, don't get me wrong.  I love it at home 
during August and the wife's H*nda would be intolerable without it.  
I've drooled over the Gilmore Ent. website.

But it ain't essential.  It's a luxury, and it comes with a price.  
Even with the new lower-HP compressors that don't suck too much power 
from a bus engine.  And the vehicles weren't designed to incorporate 
them before the vanagon years - it's all dealer tack-on.  They have 
vent wings and fresh air vents.

All I'm saying is that it's a conscious decision to employ a luxury 
appliance, not something that should be rationalized as essential.

Ducking out before the thread is squished,
Joe
