Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 05:23:21 -0800 (PST)
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Prices for a valve job?

On Tue, 25 Jan 2005, Mark Hineline wrote:

> On Jan 25, 2005, at 3:21 PM, Richard Atwell wrote:
> 
> > The bottom end went 15k miles and there is no report of problem so 
> > far. That's a lot of rotations doing the exact same thing over and 
> > over. Why replace it before it dies?
> 
> Same reason I have already given. Suppose Mike (now a hypothetical) 
> replaces or gets work done on this head, because it's only a couple of 
> hundred dollars. And in a few months he needs a ring job. Another 
> couple of hundred dollars. And then work on the other head. Another 
> couple of hundred dollars. And then a leak in the oil cooler. Another 
> hundred and fifty dollars. And then the engine throws a rod. Now he's 
> got about eight hundred dollars into this engine, and it has been a 
> poor investment all around.
> 
> The rods in this engine are likely to be mismatched, the bearings were 
> only just in spec at 0 miles. It's a money pit at best.

This is a typical cost/benefit analysis and depends on your position.

If you want a bus with a rock-solid engine that will not break down, you 
are better off getting a new engine at this point (given that you know it 
is a GEX engine and MAY have lots of issues)

Similarly, if you choose to invest $300 on head work only to find that you 
end up with a bottom-end problem in 3 months, you'll wonder why you didn't 
just invest the money in a new engine in the first place.

However, lots of people drive lots of buses that have engines/mechanicals 
in various states of (dis)repair.  If its not important to you that your 
bus may break down, there are a lot of things you can get away with...  
Similarly, if you know you're going to be buying a new engine, some would 
say "why not trash the old one?"

Also, if one were to do the head work oneself, this might be a great 
opportunity to get your hands dirty and learn more about the type-iv 
engine.

In this case, it becomes a "knowing when to draw the line" scenario and 
being able to stop spending money on what could potentially be a money 
pit.

Personally, I fall a little more into Richard's camp.  I bought a rebuilt 
type-1 engine 3 years ago that I promptley put 20k miles on in the first 6 
months.  I had horrendously high head temps, and, suspecting a cracked 
head, I pulled one head off before driving X-Country VERY loaded down.  

Long story short: it became apparent that the rebuild wasn't all that and 
that despite babying it (not letting the oil temp get above 220-225 even 
if it meant stopping every 15 minutes), the bottom-end went to a bad bad 
place in a shiny new handbasket.  I've gone through 3 heads and have 
finally hit 40k miles on the engine (my personal goal for what I wanted 
out of it).

I expect this engine to go "any day" now and have been working in my own 
slow and steady way to build a new engine for it in the interim.  Yet, I 
could very well have said 10k miles ago when I replaced the last 2 heads 
(used heads, $70 total) "this isn't worth it".  Yet here I am.  

As usual, Your Mileage May Vary, but it comes down to what you're willing 
to put up with and if you're willing to roll the dice or not.

cheers,
	tom

ps thanks to mark dearing for giving me the confidence to run an engine 
with extensive, uncorrectable endplay (0.036"+).  He let me know I could 
still get some miles out of this engine, and I have, although I am 
certainly aware that i'm living on "borrowed time".  It's been 3k miles 
since that happened.
