From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 05:46:50 -0800
To: Thomas J. Tarka <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>, Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Prices for a valve job?

On Jan 26, 2005, at 5:23 AM, Thomas J. Tarka wrote:

> As usual, Your Mileage May Vary, but it comes down to what you're 
> willing
> to put up with and if you're willing to roll the dice or not.

Okay. Here's the thing. If you go back and read Mike's original 
message, you'll find that he was ready and willing to pay $1900 for a 
valve job. He simply wanted to know whether that was a fair price. 
Here's what Mike said:

"The local shop (Fred's in Redwood City, CA) quoted ~$1900 for a valve
job. I've heard only good things about them, so it's probably a fair
price, but I've learned my lesson and will check everything before
jumping in! Is this price standard?"

Then later in the message, he wrote:

"Finally, would I be better off looking for another engine and swapping 
out?"

You (Thomas), Richard, and Mark Dearing have all presumed that Mike is 
strapped for cash, and that he should fix the head and "save up for" a 
better engine. And it's often the case that listees are strapped for 
cash. But Mike has indicated that (1) he was willing to shell out $1900 
for a valve job if that were a fair price, meaning that he has $1900 to 
spend on his bus, and (2) that he was open to the alternative of 
getting a better engine. He also indicated that he was willing to do 
the work himself.

So where does all this "save up for a better engine" advice come from? 
And why are you advising him to throw good money after bad?

If Mike had said, I bought this vanagon and it cost me every cent I 
have to my name, now what should I do, this would be a different story. 
But that's not what he said.

So, bottom line here, to tell someone who is ready and willing to 
replace an engine of highly dubious quality that he should make a 
piecemeal repair is -- I think -- the wrong advice. Your mileage may 
vary, but if it does so, it does so for a reason.

I submit that this is a rare occasion. I take advice from you guys very 
seriously. I could probably make a list of things a mile long that I 
have chosen to do because you recommended it. But you've got it wrong 
in this case.

Mark
