From: "Michael Knight" <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 08:55:14 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Prices for a valve job?

>From: Greg Potts

>Hi Michael,

>It seems to me from a few years on the list here that GEX engine have a 
>typical life expectancy of 20000 miles or less. Usually a lot less. But I'm 
>pretty sure there are exceptions to that rule, it's just that they don't 
>get much air-play on the list since nothing is wrong with them.

>My suggestion:
>Drop the engine, check the end play, and have a leak down test done. This 
>will tell you about the current condition of the rings and bottom end 
>without getting in too deep. If the bearings are out of spec or the 
>compression is dodgy you're better to find out before you sink the $$$ into 
>a head replacement.

>FWIW, my dad has replaced 2 heads on his 82 Westy, and they each cost about 
>$1200CDN including parts and labour.

>If an affordable complete engine comes along, jump on it, and rebuild the 
>gex at your leisure as a spare.


Hey there Greg,

I have a GEX but as of now I am not having problems with it. That was the 
other Newbie. My GEX woes were last year. I pulled the engine that was 
Weberized and replace the carb with the stock FI along with a complete 
reseal, swapped the P/C, reworked the heads, sheetmetal, flaps, almost 
everything. Much to the disappointment of Mr. Hineline I didn't do much with 
the bottom end. I basically started out to replace the carb, then I found it 
had no flaps. After that i decided to pull the engine and make a list of all 
missing parts and pieces, then replaced them.

Note: When I pulled the heads off I found that there were three differrent 
types of rings on the pistons. Of course each piston has three rings each 
but I mean like three different brands of rings. Only two pistons matched. 
This was an exploration of the GEX and the PO's demise of the engine in my 
bus. On of these days I will get her road worthy, Lately I have been working 
on my Vanagon. Heads pulled and resealed with new gaskets, pitts on heads 
removed ,etc. But for the time being I am going to keep the GEX in my 
Baywindow even after I get on the road with her. It runs, good compression, 
no observed overheating(at idle and the occasional jaunt around the block). 
When it blows it blows and I will be rebuilding.

But I concur for this guys problem if he can run with what he has for now do 
it and save the dough for a rainy day, it could be raining oil from your 
engine compartment. ;-)



Michael Knight
'77 Westy Deluxe, "el Verde"
'85 Vanagon GL, nameless
