From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <rusb01(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 10:26:51 -0600
Subject: bus vs. bug transmission

Re:
Date: Tue, 25 Jan 2005 18:52:18 -0800 (PST)
From: Rus <rusb01(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Transmission for Bus

Hey all i have sort of a stupid question, but are bus tranny's and bug
tranny's the same or different? I mean they share the same engines up to 71
so are the tranny's the same?
Thanks
Rus in Bartlesville, OK
Thing, fastback, squareback, bug, ghia, 65 bus, 71 bus


Hello from ggm,

It is certainly not a stupid question. There are many different
transmissions and some are easily switchable between a bus and a bug and
between buses or between bugs of the same or different years. 

The early bugs and busses with the swing arm transmissions used exactly the
same transmission and they would bolt right up in any combination, but you
could not just switch a bug with a bus transmission even though they are the
same transmission and bolt right together. I did it all the time anyway.
Really, let me explain. 

The early bus with the swing arm transmission needed lower gearing (lower
top end speeds) to push the heavier bus which also acted as a sail and had
to be pushed harder against much more wind resistance than the lighter and
streamlined bug. To get the lower gearing (and incidentally superior higher
ground clearance) VW added a gear reduction box right at the bus wheels.
This gear box reversed the direction of the input and output. 

Remember, I said: an early swingarm bug and a swingarm bus transmission
easily bolted right up to a bug or bus engine and fit perfectly because they
were essentially the same transmission. However, if you simply installed a
bug transmission into a bus you got 4 speeds in REVERSE. I replaced a lot of
swingarm transmissions and I mixed them up between busses and bugs depending
on what I had and what I needed. To switch between the bug and bus you
simply have to flip the differential ring gear around to the other side.
This is actually kind of a PITA if you don't have a whole bunch of VW
factory transmission jigs and special tools. But I did it all the time
without these tools with great long life results. You have to set the ring
gear up to mate with the pinion gear to get the teeth touching in the
correct position. So you mark the gears with thin paint and bolt together
and take apart and look at the pattern and then start guessing about how
many shims to use on either side of the ring gear and you paint the gears
and bolt together and take apart and look at the pattern and adjust the
shims and bolt together and take apart and look at the pattern and
eventually you hit it just right and tada, you have replaced your rare and
expensive bus transmission with a plentiful and cheap bug transmission.

When VW went to the CV joint rear axle they got rid of the bus gear
reduction box and thus expanded the combinations of later model transmission
bug-bus or bus-bug switch-a-roos; some very easy, some a waste of time. VW
started changing the transmission mounts and flywheel sizes and it gets a
little complicated to keep track of your switches. Generally you just use
the nosecone end of the busted transmission in the bus to retain the
mounting system and switch it with the nosecone on the replacement
transmission. 

As the engines increased in Horse Power, the transmissions changed the gear
ratios. It is usually better to match the engine with the specified
transmission for better drivability, fuel economy, and engine transmission
life.
