From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 10:54:42 -0600
Subject: bleeding brakes problems

Hello,

If you replaced most of the brake parts and are having strange problems with
braking and bleeding and sponginess and uneven braking, the problem might be
the flexible rubber brake hoses. 

If the front flexible rubber brake lines look cracked at all, and if you
have never replaced them, replace them. 

The flexible lines always look much worse on the inside. They can collapse
and slow the fluid flow causing strange, seemingly illogical, brake failure
problems. 

Normally, with perfectly functioning brakes, when you step on the brakes,
the same volume and pressure of brake fluid goes to each front brake.

e.g. Weird problem caused by internally collapsed flexible brake hose.
You step on your brakes and the car pulls to the right, so you figure that
the left front brake is not adjusted tight enough to match the tightness of
the right front brake which is braking harder with stronger stopping
ability.  However, when you touch the left front drum or disk, it is super
hot and when jacked up, the left front drum or disk will not turn
indicating? that it is adjusted too tight?!! When braking the car pulled to
the right, but the left front brake is adjusted too tight and rubbing all
the time??? 

In this case, the problem is that the left front brake hose is acting really
weird. When brake pressure is applied, it is allowing some pressure to get
through to the left front brake, but not as much as going to the right front
brake. So the left front brake does not brake as strong as the right front
brake. And the collapsed left front brake hose is actually holding pressure
and blocking the return of brake fluid back to the reservoir, so it is
holding the left front brake on all the time, which is why the left front
brake is hot and will not turn easily when jacked up.

The point is that internally collapsed flexible brake hoses can act in
really weird ways and create strange seemingly illogical braking problems. 

Flexible brake hoses are cheap to replace. 
