Date: Wed, 26 Jan 2005 12:23:11 -0600 (GMT-06:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: jclark(-at-)supernet.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: A/C in the South

You are right about the big cities developing less. Maybe then Atlanta wouldn't be asking Chattanooga for water via a proposed pipeline... 

The hot climate cities deal with the heat through various cultural differences from America. Siestas are quite common. Naked or nearly so behind open windows, closed gauzy curtains is another. Mexico City passed an anti-nudity law in your own house b/c too many neighbors were seeing too much. Oops! Forgot to close the curtains. India has been using swamp coolers but in the big cities it causes water shortages in some places. Basically run water over a grass mat while a fan blows air through it. 

In hot climates you work early, rest through the heat of the day, and then the day continues into the night. It is why some Italians gather for dinner so late (8-9PM) on special occasions. They missed work mid-day for siesta, worked until 6PM or 7PM and then gather after that for socializing. Cool drinks, LOOSE cotton clothes, short skirts for the gals, open buttons for everyone. Stay in the shade and rest in the breeze from the sea. Of course they take off 4-6 weeks in the summer for vacation too...

Even despite the heat the folks where I lived (near Naples) seldom iced their drinks. I stopped at a gas station for a 1 liter Coke while travelling in July in my Beetle from Rome to Naples - in the noontime sun - duh!. Thermostat in the cooler was broken and the drinks were slushy. Cashier tried to discourage me from drinking it b/c it was "too cold". To me it was perfect. Heat put me to sleep so I eventually had to stop for a rest and long nap (~45 minutes). I no longer drink soft drinks when driving in the heat, only water. Their diets change as well - water, cool fruits, veggies, and many have "summer kitchens". They put an older stove/oven in the courtyard (under a roof) so that things which must be cooked gets done away from the house. The heat stays out there. 

When it is stupid hot, pull over, take a nap, go for swim, read a book, and then continue after a rest and after the sun begins to slide towards the horizon. Less energy used, more alert drivers, you just don't arrive as quickly. 

I know it doesn't mesh with the "modern" American mentality which orders society to do it ALL right NOW. Taking it easy certainly doesn't fit well with the folks I know. They want to get it all done between 7AM and 4PM and then sit in "their cave" in the a/c and rest. <grin!> 

Chris
