From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 16 Apr 2002 22:51:42 EDT
To: incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Running now: was pict 30-3 carb issues. Now more carb/temp qs. 

Hm- what is your outside temp?   here in w wa that would be too hot.  maybe 
you live somewhere warmer.
Sounds like you're getting it working better though.
oil temp guage is nice

   I like the spit test- you spit on the engine case.  If the spit sizzled 
and boils aways instantly, your motor is too hot.
if your spit sizzles slowly- it is nicely warmed up, not too hot- I;d except 
this after driving on the freeway and hour in warm weather. dipstick holdable 
briefly
If it doesn't sizzle, you are probably putting round town in W wa.   Can 
easily hold dipstick after 1/2 hr driving this time of year.

Was a 40hp engine in a bug up on Orcas island that under the tin it was all 
encrusted with mud.- from the oil oozing and the dust from the dirt roads 
sticking to it.  basically the fins were covered- it had no functional fins.  
had been years of build up  But as this bug was on a small island without any 
freeways and with a temperate climate, it did not overheat.

In a message dated 4/16/02 6:05:41 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org writes:

<< 
 Drove about 1/2 hour, all speeds. Engine seems a slight bit hot. Oil
 dipstick is uncomfy to hold, but doable right after run, and parking.
 
 Engine restarts easily now.
 
 Is this too hot, I mean I CAN hold the stick, but I'd rather not.
 Wanna get head temp gauge and oil tmep guage, just to set her up right.
 Idle mixture screw had little affect, making me think I need larger
 main, smaller pilot?
 Anticipating a 55g for pilot, 50 aux/idle/whatever, 125-127.5 main now,
 which will proabbly make me need that 135z.
 
 Basically the nature of my q is, based on my description of dipstick, is
 this too hot? Cold h20 didn't sizzle off the block.
 Since I have that engle 100, I imagine now I need to follow the mutual
 advice of the list and get even bigger jets in there, but due to the
 nonresponse of the idle mixture screw, smaller pilots, correct?
 Still learning, hopefully not by too dangerous experimentation!
 Al >>
