Date: Fri, 28 Jun 2002 01:56:26 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: QST! All Ham Radio Bus Owners!!!

First off, NEATO, SV2s, LIMBO, etc please distribute this message to your 
lists.  We can use as wide of distribution on this as possible.


George Lyle and myself have been in discussion about putting together an 
Amateur Radio Special Event Station for BBB VII this coming January.  I 
know it's a long ways off, but these things have to be planned well in advance.

We will be setting up a station so that contacts can be made all over the 
world throughout the weekend.  We would especially like to get some 
advertising of the Special Event Station in the German press so that we can 
attempt to make over the air contacts with German Bus owners.

For those traveling cross country to reach the event, we will be able to 
send third party messages to loved one (or hated ones) back home letting 
them know you survived the trek.

We will also have demonstrations of various Amateur Radio operating modes, 
including the Vehicle Trackers and possibly Satellite communications.

We already have made bunches of progress....

Approval to go ahead with this from the BBB folks.

We have a special event station call sign of W7V for the entire 
weekend,  (the 7 is for AZ and the other letters?)  Sorry, V7W belongs to 
another country.

There is a web page that will provide updates and latest information
http://www.dolphinsci.com/hamradio/bbb.html

George and I both have a bunch of radios.  I am going to try and bring out 
a satellite tracking station in addition to the vehicle trackers.

We need PEOPLE, licensed Ham Radio operators that are thinking about making 
the trek to BBB.    Now you have an excuse to spend a weekend enjoying two 
of your hobbies (obsessions) at the same time.  There are only so many 
hours in a day that George and I can operate by ourselves.  We'd like to 
spread the fun around some.  If you have friends who are hams, bring them 
along.If you haven't heard, it will be in a new location this year and by 
all accounts in a much nicer area (not that the old was bad, the new is 
even better).

There will be more updates later and I'll be making regular (once a month 
on Friday) appeals for operators.

Thanks and 73's
Scott Fraser
KN6F

