From: "Frank E Biffath III" <fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com>
To: "David Schwarze" <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 28 Jun 2002 10:36:54 -0400
Subject: Re: distributors

David, and list
Thank you for your interest.  Here is what I found last night.  Oh and yes,
I was not getting a good ground, and finally got the timing light to react.
Funny thing, I tried another known light, and it didn't fire either.  Oh
well.
Dwell said my points were around 70ish, WOW, I don't know anything, but dang
I know that isn't between 42-58 for worn points.
Initial timing check seemed fair, by my standards.  I am having difficulty
determining which marks I am trying to hit.  Next step will be to insert a
straw in the #1 cylinder and determine exactly where TDC is and I will be
one step closer to a HapyBus mechanic.  Yaaaaaay.
So I replaced the points, and after a few tries settled on a dwell of 50.
Close enough for my work.
The timing fluttered quite a bit. I don't think the timing should flutter.
Shouldn't it run consistent?  Again, not knowing which mark (I have 3 slots
on pulley wheel, one is painted, and I have the crankcase seam, and a very
little dot just right of the seam that appears to be factory added, so I
tried em all)  I settled on the seam, 5* after TDC, and it flutters.
The Bentley says test by revving up to 2000 rpm, and if the dwell moves more
than 1*, you have distributor shaft probs.  Yes you are right, fluctuated
about 4-6*.  So I assume I do have probs with the distributor.
Cooling problems, my battery trays are trashed, and I have a crunched right
rear quarter panel.  I have to believe that this mess is allowing my nice
cool air to escape before it does the trick.
In summary, I have called all over  town this morning looking for a
distributor.  No luck yet.  I know I can order from a variety of places, but
I wanted to replace today.

I don't suppose one more 100 mile round trip will kill it.  But I can't go
camping without HapyBus.

Thank you all for your thoughts, especially Bob in Sandiego, Nemo in West
Virginia, and Mark Schwarze.

Incidentally, I did buy a vacuum guage as well.  Anyone tell me what to
check for with this tool and or how to go about it??

Respectfully,

Frank E Biffath III
IMS
614.761.4242 x 2231
www.mailingsolutions.com


