Date: Fri, 28 Jun 2002 10:57:45 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Grinding into first - tranny shifting 101

Don't shift to first unless you are barely moving or wait until you are 
stopped. Solves that grinding problem. Change that oil in the tranny with 
GL-4 spec oil. I use synthetic with good results.

You are dealing with a low oil situation, and a 25 year old plus tranny. 
Normal wear. Normal symptoms. Worn synchronizers I'm sure. Learn to drive 
where you don't need those synchronizers very much. You can drive a tranny 
without any synchronizers at all if you are smooth enough. An old mechanic 
told me one time that synchronizers are for people who can't shift 
properly. I use them often I'm sure.... <grin>

By rev matching the engine to the gear you can get into any gearing 
regardless of the gear's synchronizer's condition. Same routine as driving 
without a clutch basically. If you are unfamiliar about what I'm writing 
about - watch any 60's race movie. You'll notice that right before they 
shift down for a corner or a hard curve you'll heard the driver rev the 
engine and then shift. He knows just watch rpm to run the engine up to 
match the gear that he wants and the speed of the car.

Essentially he is getting the engine up to the same rpm that it would be if 
he simply put the clutch in, put the tranny in the gear he wants and then 
let the clutch out without his foot on the throttle. You'd hear the engine 
race to some higher rpm - - - say from 2000 rpm to 3,500 rpm (if that a 
real race car the rpms would be much higher I'm sure).

If this would have generated a 3,500 rpm engine speed (and an experienced 
race driver would know)- then when he is rev matching - he puts in the 
clutch, revs the engine to 3,500 rpm and holds it a brief moment , shifts, 
and lets the clutch pedal back out. Same effect but he is not putting any 
strain on the drivetrain and though the shifter slides right into the lower 
gear the synchronizers aren't doing any (or much work). This would work if 
you had new synchronizers or none at all.

If you didn't have a functioning clutch you would do about the same thing - 
let off the throttle just enough to take the torque load off of the tranny 
- - not coasting and not accelerating. Then the shifter can be used to put 
the car in neutral. If you rev the engine up to the right speed - to 3,500 
rpm in this example then you could put the gear shifter into the next lower 
gear.

Of course in real life nothing is this simple - and unless you are a well 
practiced driver you will sometimes not make a smooth shift or you will 
make the tranny grind a bit. If you were racing a car with hundreds of HP 
and missed a shift the sudden load on the gears might lead to a broken gear 
or shaft.

Short story: we used Fiat Ducato FWD 4 cylinder diesel vans for patrol 
vehicles when I was a Navy MP in Naples, Italy in 1991-1994. These vans had 
a 5 speed shifter on the column. After many thousands of miles in these 
vehicles and due to a good amount of wear on the shifter and tranny we 
could often got from 1st to 5th and never touch the clutch - smooth and no 
noises. This can be done in any vehicle with enough practice and assuming 
the tranny isn't tight and new. Our new Honda wouldn't do it at 500 miles 
but I bet it would now. I think I'll just keep using the clutch pedal though...

Be sure to adjust the clutch - or at least check the adjustment.

Do all the tranny maintenance - most vans need it and most have never 
gotten it. I would consider replacing the shifter bushings, greasing them 
and replacing the coupler. Remove and grease the clutch cable. Renew or 
replace the clutch cable rubber dust boots where the cable exits and enters 
the guide tube. Adjust the shifter.

Now see if it is any better or worse. Probably won't be much better and 
shouldn't be any worse BUT you will feel better about your tranny and van 
b/c something that it needed got done. It could fix some of the grinding of 
gears.

As long as you can shift up from 1st to 2nd to 3rd to 4th and the tranny is 
not making any annoying noises then I would keep driving it and not spend 
any money on it besides the maintenance I mentioned above. This way it 
could last for YEARS. Change that oil in the tranny regularly - maybe 
bi-annually and you might notice easier shifting, less grinding.

If you can a few more years out of your tranny I suspect a replacement 
tranny will come along one day for the right price and you can snatch it up.

When I burned up the auto tranny in my Mustang back in 1987 because I was 
ALWAYS shifting it (wore out the clutches) and the tranny man reminded me 
that shifting down was certainly valuable but most often unnecessary unless 
descending a long hill - he said "Brakes are cheaper than transmissions 
son..."

So since then under normal conditions in all the cars I drive  - - - when I 
approach a stop I ride high gear until the motor is almost going to start 
to lug, then I push in on the clutch pedal, pull the shifter out of gear, 
and coast to a stop using only the brakes. At some very slow speed I slip 
it into 1st. The tranny man told me that this would make a tranny last a 
long, long, long time.

If you are worried about abusing the brakes - just remember that an 
automatic bus has no option but to coast to a stop unless you are shifting 
it down with the lever (which can lead to a premature rebuild like I 
mentioned above).

Hope this reassures you a little. You tranny is not on the way out, it's 
just old and showing it's age.



>I am having a difficult time with the transmission in
>my '72.  When I shift into first from a stop, it
>grinds.  I can downshift into first when moving
>forward slightly without any difficulty or grinding.
>Also, when downshifting to second, it doesn't always
>want to shift very easilty, it takes more force than I
>want to give it to move the shifter into second gear.
>I was reading Muir last night and he spoke of moans
>and growls, I am assuming my grinding is related.  I
>haven't yet checked the transmission oil level, I plan
>on doing that tonight.  My question, if the level is
>low, would that produce my sypmtoms, or am I looking
>at a bigger problem inside the transmission?  I am
>preparing myself for the worst.  If it is determined
>that the transmission needs to be overhauled, how easy
>is it to find a used or rebuilt tranny?  I would
>likely opt not to have the current transmission
>rebuilt and instead would look to replace.  Thanks in
>advance, happy Friday...

Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

