Date: Fri, 25 Nov 2005 04:26:57 -0500
From: sglw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Starter won't turn over with key

 I have had similar problems from time to time with my 70 & 63 buses. The best fix is to put in a relay. This has worked for me eveer time. Modern vehicles have a relay to work the starter solenoid & this upgrade is fine if you are not am absolute purist type.
 
Sam W
63 singlecab
70 Pop-Top Westy
73 Thingster
87 Vanagon Westy Auto/AC!!
 
 
-----Original Message-----
From: mattroberds(-at-)cox.net
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: jamie(-at-)kookymathteacher.com
Sent: Fri, 25 Nov 2005 1:52:11 -0500
Subject: [VB] Re: Starter won't turn over with key


> From: Jamie Auch <jamie(-at-)kookymathteacher.com>
> Date: Thu, 24 Nov 2005 13:06:26 -0500
>
> I have recently gotten my 1960 DD on the road but have
> had problems starting it with the key.  There is a wire
> that runs straight from the battery to the solenoid for
> starting when working on the engine. I never know when
> the bus might start with the key or not.  At first I
> thought it might be a "hot start" problem, but the bus
> would starter would not tun over this morning.

It sounds like you're not getting enough voltage to the
solenoid when it has to run all the way to the front,
through the ignition switch, and back again.  There are
a lot of connections in this wire, and a high resistance
at one or more of them can do you in:

voltage regulator B+ tab to push-on female
push-on female to wire (fat red wire to starter)
wire to ring terminal
ring terminal to ring terminal
ring terminal to wire (long red wire to front)
wire to wire (splice in push-on barrel at fuse box)
wire to wire (splice in push-on barrel at light switch)
wire to push-on female
push-on female to 30 tab on ignition key
contact inside ignition key
50 tab on ignition key to push-on female
push-on female to wire (long red wire to back)
wire to push-on female
push-on female to 50 tab on starter solenoid

If a test light comes on, it's telling you that you've
got somewhere between half and full battery voltage.  Half
battery voltage may not be enough to convince the solenoid
to work.  To know for sure, do the same tests you have
done, but substitute a voltmeter for the test light.

When you're measuring between the 50 tab on the solenoid
and ground with the voltmeter, and your kid twists the
key, probably one of four things will happen:

1) The voltmeter will read something north of 5 V or so,
   the solenoid will pull in, and the starter will turn.

2) The voltmeter will read something north of 5 V or so,
   the solenoid won't pull in, and the starter won't turn.

3) The voltmeter will read something between 1 and 5 V,
   the solenoid won't pull in, and the starter won't turn.

4) The voltmeter will read 0.0, the solenoid won't pull
   in, and the starter won't turn.

#1 is what you want.  For #2, if the push-on connection
to the 50 tab on the solenoid is tight on the tab and
tight on the wire, the problem is probably inside the
solenoid.  For #3, you've probably got a bad contact somewhere in the wire (as 
above), a bad contact in the ignition switch, or maybe a bum solenoid.  For #4,
you have a totally open circuit (wire broken in two), 
probably somewhere between the 50 tab on the ignition
switch and the solenoid.  Note that all of the above
numbers assume a 6 V system; double them for 12 V.

You might be able to narrow it down a little.  Disconnect
the battery, then take the red wire off of the 50 tab on
the ignition switch.  Make sure the red wire is still on
the 30 tab.  Hook the battery back up.  Jump the loose
end of the wire that was on the 50 tab to the wire that's
still on the 30 tab.  If that reliably runs the starter,
your ignition switch is probably suspect.

On general principle, cleaning up and tightening the
connections at the battery terminals, battery ground
strap to body, transmission ground strap to body,
starter solenoid terminals, generator, and voltage
regulator will reduce losses and give you higher voltage
throughout the Bus.  When doing this, remove the battery
ground strap first and hook it up as the very last thing
you do, to prevent sparks and fires.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
