Date: Fri, 25 Nov 2005 21:01:00 -0800
From: "jeffbell(-at-)siu.edu" <jeffbell(-at-)siu.edu>
To: <ron(-at-)busdepot.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Hankook Tires are back!

>A quick note that the well-regarded Hankook RA08 all-season Bus 
tires are
>back in stock, in both 185R14 and 195R14 sizes. (185R14 is 
recommended.)

>- Ron Salmon
>  The Bus Depot, Inc.

Hi all,

Just a note to all concerning the Hankook RAO8 tires.  You are 
probably all tired of me raving about these tires but, this 
time, I want to add one caution.  These tires are absolutely 
outstanding on dry roads and even good in the rain.  In fact, 
I've done some amazing off-roading in them a couple times also.  
This past week I discovered why they are NOT rated M&S, 
however.  

My lady lives at about the 3,000 foot level in the Syskiyou 
mountains in Southern Oregon.  I've been doing some remodeling 
and painting at her house/cabin lately getting it ready for 
winter.  A couple of evenings back, after a long day, I was 
backing down her drive (about 50 yards long and a 15 to 20 
angle.  Though ice had collected on my windows and mirrors 
during the day, the drive was graveled last year so it looked 
fine.  It wasn't.  As I was backing down, the rear of the bus 
began to slide left and I was unable to stop it or control it.  
I even tried to shift back into first but it just continued to 
slide.  I was just going for the ride.  

It came to rest with the rear bumber in the creek (about 25-30 
feet below) and the nose pointing up at about a 70 degree 
angle.  It took about three hours, three or four cedars and 
maples and $311 dollars to get it winched back out.  It will 
require many hundreds of dollars in body work.  Luckily, the 
only mechanical damage was to the muffler and tail pipe.  

I probably should have had chains or studded tires on it.  I 
doubt if even M&S tires would have helped that much.  Now my 
beautiful bus (It had the bodywork and paint completed early 
this summer so it looked new) looks like a veteran Baja racer.

The point of all this is be wise (unlike me) when choosing 
tires.  I still maintain that the Hankook RAO8 tires are the 
best bus tires available for normal conditions, at any price.  
They are NOT severe weather or severe road condition tires, 
however.  I'm looking for studded winter tires right now (and a 
good body shop).

Jeff
