From: "David Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 13 Dec 2001 20:22:27 -0600
Subject: PUSH BUTTON STARTER and FLAMES

Dear List Friends,

After reading all the posts about how terrible it is to install a push
button for starting, and the resulting flames and anti-flames, I felt it was
time for a response from yours truly.

After making a silly mistake with some under-dash wires, I fried my ignition
switch. Jiggling would get it to start but I couldn't find a place to make
it keep running. Long story short, I decided to install a push button system
since I couldn't wait for a new stock switch to arrive by mail. First of
all, I didn't have to "cut holes in my dashboard" since there were two
factory holes covered only by the vinyl, though I did have to enlarge one
slightly with the dremel.  They appearance is professional looking; factory
even. Only someone who KNOWS what a 74 T2 dash is supposed to look like
would notice that something was different.

Second, this isn't some "squeaky-cheep" work around. We're not talking romex
stuffed under the carpeting, here. I used quality switches, terminals, and
wire. I used a fused, two-position pull switch for power and a heavy duty
push button for starting; I soldered all connections (even the crimp
terminals), covered all joints with shrink-tube insulation. I used the
original wiring, only having to extend one or two to reach the push button.
One advantage to this system is that I now have an "Accessory" position on
my ignition--something VW never saw fit to include. I also see it as having
some minor anti-theft properties since it isn't a common system and nobody
can make it start from the key switch.

Done correctly, I don't see why this is inferior to the factory system.
Rather than being jury-rigged, it is simply a differently engineered system
which accomplishes the original builder's intent with reliability,
durability, and a bit of style (if I do say so myself). Did anyone here put
in a new stock switch in June of this year? We can have a contest to see
whose lasts longer. Chances are we'll both be far beyond the age of reason
before either one of them fails.

On a final note, I have to say that I understand and respect Dr. Tim's
opinion on these things based on his status as a professional. My system may
give pause to the next professional  who works on it (doubtful that will
happen but never say never), but anyone competent enough to be a
professional could figure it out in five minutes with a multimeter and an
open mind. In many regards, "stock ist best", especially in engine
components, however when it comes to ordinary things like switches there is
nothing inherently superior in the VW system when compared to other quality
systems that accomplish the same function.  (Remember we're talking daily
drivers, here, not pure restorations.)

>pontificating mode off<
Dave
74 Riviera

PS: Flame on if you want to; I can take it!



