Date: Fri, 14 Dec 2001 07:05:18 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Cheap attitude=busted Bus

At 02:03 PM 12/13/2001 -0800, you wrote:
>
>P. S.  Only my dad is allowed to slam me publicly,
>like you just did.  And that is even up to question.

I slam dunk the idea that you can get results of highest economy by
investing half the time/money to do the work right. If that's your idea, so
be it. If you wish to make it public, then I respond with a differing
opinion, in public. You can p-mail me if you want to keep your opinions
private. I don't repond to the list unless it came from the list, excepting
random blunders on occasion.

>
>Maybe bus ownership gives us all a different way of
>looking at things.

The Bus has only one way of looking at things. It's designed in by those
curmudgen bone-headed Neandereers, if you recall. If you don't get on the
Buses viewpoint, you lose coin, per design.  The common misconception is
that Buses are cheap. Kept in proper order with original equipment parts,
they are incredibly ecomically sound and they can be maintained
indefinately. A Bus is a pet that can live twice as long as any dog, unless
you keep it on half rations all the time to "save money". Then things
really get expensive with the total loss that is premature death due to
lack of adequate maintenance and repair.  

>
>I can guarantee you that I have had many more
>experiences packed into these 28 years than many
>people twice my age.

So what???? Many people 58 years old are dumb as a post and no matter how
many experiences they have had. Dangerouse to assume that because you had
an experience you necessarily learned anything important from it. And
certainly not when egos are at play.

>
>PS, help me fix my pump!!

Any trees on that farm??? How many tons of saw logs would it take to pay
for a new pump??? A little selective logging on the farm might be an
option. A half sized cedar around here is worth $10,000 at the shake plant,
but we do grow them big. Just two cords of seasoned firewood would bring
enough to buy the new pump. You have options, man. One is to fix it right
(in the way that the BUS knows to be right by design), by whatever means
necessary (within common law and morals). That's the one I vote for every
time. You may chose to fix it "cheaper" if you prefer. Isn't freedom grand. 

You can pretend to fix it all you want. The only way I could fix it in a
few days time frame is with a new pump, unless I wanted to scoure the bone
yards for a hulk with a recent new pump and a lucky bargain. Bought with
how much scouring time??? How many years 'till it has to be fixed cheaper
than the real cost of really fixing it NOW???

Regards,


T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

