From: Mfitzsim(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 14 Dec 2001 13:01:15 EST
To: kaweeka(-at-)worldnet.att.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb Question

In a message dated 12/14/2001 3:39:14 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
kaweeka(-at-)worldnet.att.net writes:

<< I am going to purchase new carbeuration and would like to know 
preferences. >>

Dave,

I have run both 34 ICT's and 40 IDFs on late bus motors.  

The 34 ICT's didn't seem to offer any performance improvements over the stock 
solex carbs and worse, they had no chokes.  I also could find NO jetting 
advice; I gave up soon with them.

Weber IDF's are very noisy, expensive to jet (4 of each jet per adjustment) 
and a bit of a challenge to set up and keep adjusted.  The linkages seemed to 
require constant tweeking, I thought the airfilters were pretty cheap and 
they didn't offer great fuel economy.  If you buy used ones, calculate the 
cost of a rebuild estimate into the transaction just in case before you close 
the deal.  Its a complicated and time consuming procedure.

I personally would try to avoid a single carb if possible.  It will NOT be as 
efficient at delivering fuel and air to your engine as twin carbs and you 
will need to fabricate an intake manifold pre-heat system of some sort.  Like 
the weber 34 ICT's, in many ways you would be replacing your stock 72 carbs 
with a cruder system that won't perform as well.

Beware that NEW carbs are RARELY jetted correctly for your particular engine 
out of the box.  The correct jetting is based on the engine's displacement, 
cam, valve size, heads, compression ratio, rocker arms, exhaust etc. and yes, 
even driving habits.

Needless to say, though it may run OK, there is only a very small chance the 
carbs are jetted "off the shelf" to run optimally with the engine's 
combination of the above elements.  Each IDF carb had at least 6 jets and 
emulsion tubes that needed to be the correct size to work well with one 
another, the engine and my driving habits.  What's_really_fun is 
that_each_jet cost around $4!  Estimate set-up and tuning time/costs before 
you make your final decision.

Though the IDF's worked OK most of the time, I eventually got tired of 
sluggish cold starts, hesitation and linkage adjustments and knew that I 
would inevitably face plugged idle passages, leaky float valves, worn 
throttle shafts, re-synchronizing etc.  I was un-satisfied enough with carbs 
in general that I switched to fuel injection.  None of the three carb setups 
I have used were as low maintenance or as driveable in all conditions as the 
fuel injection conversion I now run.

You have at least 2 options with FI:

1) Finding a used stock Bosch L-jet system from a dead bus shouldn't be too 
tough and most replacement parts are available from list-vendors.  
Maintenance and trouble shooting is well laid out in the Bentley Manual and 
in several on-line sources.  A well maintained system will be much more 
reliable over the life of the engine than any carb set-up.

2) I installed a Bosch k-jet conversion (CIS) from Miller Fuel Injection 
(http://www.millerfi.com/) on my current bus. I moved the engine that had the 
weber IDF's from my old bus into the new bus with the FI conversion and it is 
superior in every way.

Miller got started in the business of fuel injection conversion because he 
wanted a more reliable, higher hp alternative to dual carbs on the sand 
rail/baja cars that he and his friends run in the desert.  The appeal of 
Bosch K-jet (CIS) for many is the fact that it has no electronic control unit 
or "brain".  It accomplishes its fuel management tasks by mechanically 
monitoring temperature, atmospheric pressure/altitude and with some systems, 
manifold vacuum.  It isn't as efficient as as systems that monitor exhaust 
oxygen percentage but its better than carburetors at adapting to changing 
engine conditions. 

Its also a great system because spare parts come out of dead 
rabbits/jettas/quantums/audi 4k's that are found by the hundreds in salvage 
yards everywhere!  This is NOT the case with weber parts/linkages......

good luck with your choice!

mark fitzsimons
