Date: Thu, 23 Oct 2003 14:22:04 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] GL4

Ok,, I don't know the answer to this debate, but years ago, I used a
product called Delo from Chevron,

Then I found out from the list about the importance of knowing what your
doing,, and I asked the supplier if this product is ok in a VW transaxle

Of course, that is like asking the baker, Is the bread fresh?
They will always say "Sure is" just to make a sale.

That thought aside, he went on to describe the oil,, it is ok with yellow
metal syncro's... that is important.

One other thing I had experienced was foaming,,, some oils will foam,
create pressure in the trans,, and blow past the input shaft seal.. and
leak about a half cup all over the clutch, and the ground etc.

This Delo does not foam...

At first I worried about it,, but now I have driven just over 100,000kms
transmission is still intact, so I don't know If the lifespan has been
shortened

You can read about the oil with this PDF ... and see if it is available in
your area,, I was able to buy it in 1 quart bottles with a nice squirt lid
that allows you to put a hose on it, and squeeze it into the transmission.

http://www.globalserve.net/~jrivers/DELO%2080W90.pdf

       From:
            "Terry Pitcher" <tpitcher(-at-)hoggfuel.com>
 Organization:
            Hogg Fuel & Supply Ltd.
         To:
            <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>




Hi Jamie,



I have attached the product data sheet for the Delo 80W90.  This product
does meet the performance requirements of API Service
Designations GL-4 & GL-5.  The borate based extreme pressure additive
package utilized exclusively in the Delo gear oils will not
chemically attack yellow metals, such as brass and bronze, therefore
making it suitable for applications containing yellow metals.
However, conventional extreme pressure additives that utilize sulfur
phosphorous compounds will attack yellow metals. Thats why it
is difficult to find gear oil that meets the GL-4 specification.  Feel
free to contact me if you have any more questions.



Terry Pitcher

Transit Petroleum

1-800-531-5823

519-743-5823
