Date: Thu, 23 Oct 2003 17:32:41 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Billy <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Holding the long starter bolt

Regarding the long starter bolt with the D shaped head -

You get the engine up into the bus, and held in by two or three bolts. You
then slide the upper right bolt thru the starter hole and thru the engine
case hole. You reach around holding a 17mm nut, and carefully turn it onto
the bolt, avoiding pushing the bolt back thru the hole. The technique is
to push the bolt sideways against the hole, so it doesn't move, while
lightly turning the nut onto it. This can be done with the fingers of one
hand. It is simple.

I go one further and use 3M 80001 Weatherstrip Adhesive (yellow glue) and
clean up the relevant surfaces, and glue the damn bolt in there as I'm
putting it back in, after say, a tranny replacement, or a starter
replacement, like I'm gonna do this Saturday when I replace my starter.

My two upper bolts are both
glued in there, and they stay there til I replace starter or tranny. My
engine removals/installs take minutes, don't require any hassles under the
bus feeding those upper bolts in. They're there waiting for the nuts,
which go on quickly and easily, because the bolts are glued in.
And yes, I always remove that threaded insert on the upper case hole, so I
can have that hole clear for the glued-in bolt to slide right in. I run a
doghouse housing, and there's plenty room on boths sides (left side a bit
tighter) for your flat ratcheting 17mm Sears $12 magic box wrench to fit
over the nut to tighten or loosen.

On those rare opportunities when I replace starter or tranny, a light tap
on the bolt breaks the glue, and it comes out.

Go for it!

cal



On Thu, 23 Oct 2003, Billy wrote:

> I thought the shape of the special bolt head alone was for this specific purpose, you need the clip to?
>
> Billy
>
> >The only trick to re-instaling the starter is to get >someone to hold the long bolt (so it doesn't spin) >on the starter end while you tighten the
> >nut in the engine compartment.
