Date: Fri, 24 Oct 2003 08:24:06 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Jason Z Upper <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Steering Freeplay - How to Fix?

On Thu, 23 Oct 2003, Jason Z Upper wrote:

> I've noticed that my Bus has more steering freeplay than it had before, and
> I was wondering about a good course of action for fixing it.  I checked the
> archives, and there was mention of replacing the drag link and mention of
> adjusting the steering box.  I was intrigued by the steering box adjustment
> -- is there something easy that can be looked at to tighten the box itself,
> or does the box require replacement?
>
> If my understanding of the system is correct, I can see the tie rod ends,
> the drag link, and the pitman arm bushings as all being places for potential
> wear.  Is there more to it, or is this it?

There are more items.  The relay arm and the shock bushing at the
base of the steering shaft should definitely be on the list as
"usual suspects."  Less common but also possible are the ball joints,
wheel bearings, and a loose pitman arm.  As we heard last week a broken
front axle beam is also a possibility.

Before you adjust your steering box you should crawl under the bus while
someone moves the steering wheel.  If the play in the wheel is severe you
will usually be able to see which parts are flexing.  Actually you should
not "look" with just your eyes though.  Look with your hands as well.
Lay your hand on each bit and junction and try to sense improper movement.
The tie rods and drag link should move only back and forth.  They should
not twist or rise as the wheel is turned.  The relay arm should rotate in
one plane and should not flex at all.

If the play does turn up in the box then you have to examine the box for
an adjustment screw.  Some boxes have it, some do not.  If your bus does
have an adjustment screw then it a matter of loosening the lock nut,
adjusting the screw, and tightening the lock nut.  I would be loathe to
instruct you in doing this over the internet however.  Adjustment is very
much a matter of feel and if you overtighten the adjustment screw you will
destroy your steering box in short order.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
