From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: <TYPE2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 24 Oct 2003 06:57:16 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] GL4 vs. GL5

From: "librarian"
> I am sorry but I cannot believe this is a point of discussion much less a
 point of extended discussion.  Volkswagen calls for GL4, GL4 is widely
 available, and thus it is what ought to be used.  The danger of n
 incompatibility may be miniscule but the risk/reward ratio is huge. GL4 is
 in no more danger of disappearing than non-detergent HD30 motor oil which
 has not been the oil of choice in 40 years.  In a commercial shop you just
 order it in like any other product.  In DIY you may have to visit a few
 shops or even mail order it but it IS available and always will be.

AND to add to this:

GL5 has NEVER replaced GL4. The specs for GL4 will always stay the same.
If you walk into a store asking for GL4 and the person says 'it is now GL5', LEAVE! That person is full of
bull and does not know what he/she is talking about.
Tony in NJ sent an interesting UK site yesterday. http://www.penrite.co.uk/
In the hypoid section, it says:

Mild EP
An SAE 140 grade gear oil suitable for use in bevel, worm and pre-1960 hypoid gears. Rated GL4 this gear oil
does not possess the additive package found in later GL5 gear oils which should not be used in veteran and
vintage vehicles as the additive packages in these oils attack metals such as bronze, brass and copper.

[I think the 140 grade is too thick but the explaination is correct]

And of course, the MT-1 mumbo jumbo came up again. Not sure where this BS came from originally. Probably from
the same salesperson that said 5 replaces 4.....

There was a great info page from Lubrizol but it is gone now.
http://www.lubrizol.com/ReadyReference/15-gears/default.htm
Here was the section on MT-1.... I will cut n paste what it
said here:

''API Category MT-1

Numerous performance specifications can be used to identify the level of
protection that will be provided by an automotive gear lubricant. In the past,
API Category GL-4 was commonly used to describe the type of lubricants that
would provide acceptable performance in manual transmissions and lightly loaded
final drive axles. API Category GL-5 described lubricants that were generally
used in final drive axles operating in moderate to severe service. However,
several new performance specifications are becoming the benchmark for describing
lubricant quality.

API Category MT-1, which was issued in 1995, describes the performance
requirements of lubricants intended for use in non-synchronized manual
transmissions, such as those found in heavy-duty trucks and buses. Lubricants
meeting the requirements of API Category MT-1 provide protection against the
combination of thermal degradation, component wear, and oil seal deterioration,
which is not provided by lubricants meeting only the requirements of API GL-1
through GL-5.''

I read the second paragragh 6 times......every time it said that MT-1 is for
NON-SYNCHRONIZED MANUAL TRANSMISSIONS.

Remember what it says about GL4 being for transmissions and GL5 is for final drives.
And yes, the bus auto trans does use 5 in the final drive section.

I wish the 68-79 Bentley specified GL4 in black and white but it does not. It does say to use transmission
gear oil in the trans and hypoid oil in the auto trans final drive.
Again, GL4 is gear oil and GL5 is hypoid oil, but most auto stores do not know the difference!
The Vanagon Bentley DOES give the oil specs for the 091 gearbox. In the 80-85 book, section 35, page 35.2, it
says API/GL4; MIL-L-2105 SAE 80W, SAE 80W/90

Do a little research on the MIL-L-2105 spec.  That spec will NEVER change!
