Date: Fri, 24 Oct 2003 13:46:44 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] alternator getting too hot?

I missed the start of this thread,, I agree with Phil

I had an experience this summer,,, turned out to be a collapsed fuel line
between the fuel pump and the filter... BECAUSE, *I* had installed 300 mm
of 12 mm line between the pump and the filter, [2 liter, EFI engine]
I initially planned on installing a real short length , as per VW... but
when I looked at the longer length insitu,, I felt it would make changing
filters much easier....

It was complicated by: change in ambient, change in fuel [ethanol], change
in altitude, folks who were SURE it was a vapor lock [ethanol], the fact
it would only "die" after sustained hiway speed, and would always restart
as soon as anything was touched in the fuel system,, IE checking for
delivery at certain points,, and it would always restart after just
waiting,,, and a EFI electrical poor connection at AFM.

The solution, I removed 250mm and left just 50mm connecting the pump and
the filter so there was NO way it could collapse.

I KNEW it was a fuel delivery problem as I had a fuel pressure gauge
installed,. so when it died, I would turn it over using my remote starter
switch in the engine comp. and watch the pressure gauge.

At first, I thought it was a blockage, the AFM, or the Double Relay, the
regulator,or the fuel pump,.

I pinched off the return line from the regulator to the tank,, no fuel
pressure,,
can't be the regulator,

I disconnected the fuel line at the Tank outlet... 2liters of fuel in
about 30 seconds! Plenty
can't be a blockage in the tank,,, I had looked inside the tank for rust
recently....

I disconnected the fuel line entering the filter,,, about the same
can't be a plugged line [small line]

I disconnected the fuel line leaving the filter,, plenty
can't be a plugged filter

I disconnected the fuel line leaving the fuel pump,, and aimed the pump
into the desert.... this was the only geyser I saw, as I chose to omit
Yellowstone and head to BC
Can't be the fuel pump

At this point,, I changed the pump to my spare,,, and it still didn't
work... BUT I had probably added to the problem by using vise grips on the
culprit line to allow me to change the pump and not get drenched in gas

YESSSSS,, I made sure the vise grips were OFF when I was testing,, cause I
know *somebody* who left the line plugged with his visegrips.... and the
wife kept asking me ,, Where are the vice grips honey,, are they still on
the line??

EVERYTHING was perfect!.... but it still quit after driving for 20 minutes
at 100km/hr

Then I checked the large hose, after a fellow mentioned he had a fuel line
collapse on him!

Eureka! The fuel line was collapsing at high demand

phil cain wrote:
>
> Sounds like a fuel problem to me also, runs good for a
> while, shuts down or slowes down, cut it off for a
> while and it runs good again---, tank blockage, filter,
> motor, lines. Put a pressure gage on it and check it
> when it slowes down, bet its got low pressure. Phil
>
-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
