Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 21:11:43 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Saving radio settings

>From: "Ted Finesman" <tedebare(-at-)one.net>
>Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 11:04:14 -0400
>
>Hi Volks- Can anyone suggest a way to keep my radio settings when I
>disconnect the battery?

You can always do an opto-mechanical transfer onto carbon/cellulose RAM,
but I think you're asking for an electronic way.  The goal is to continue
to supply voltage to your radio while limiting the current, so that if
you do make a short circuit while working, you don't get a big spark.

Assuming you have a 12 V bus, as 6 V radios don't tend to have electronic
presets:

The simplest thing to do is to get a 9 volt battery and a couple of
leads with alligator clips on each end.  Clip one lead onto the negative
terminal of the 9 V battery and to Bus ground (bare metal on body).
Clip the other lead onto the positive terminal of the 9 V battery and
to a wire in your Bus that always has battery voltage.  Now disconnect
the 12 V battery in the engine compartment - you don't have to rush, but
don't leave the 9 V and 12 V batteries both connected for a long time.
When you're done, reconnect the 12 V battery, then unhook the 9 V one.

If you're careful, you can clip the 9 V battery across the terminals
on the cables at the 12 V battery.  The only problem with this is that
it's easy knock the clips off when you go to put the cables back on the
12 V battery.

9 V will be enough to keep the radio's memory.  If you do make a short
while working, a 9 V battery doesn't have that much short-circuit
current capability; maybe 5 A -- compare that to the several hundred
amps available from the starting battery.  If you're really paranoid,
put a small fuse (0.5 to 1 A) in the wire from the 9 V battery positive
to the Bus.

If you have a cigarette lighter that always works (not just when the
key is on), you can buy a cigarette lighter plug with a 9 V battery snap
on it.  Plug the battery onto the snap, plug the gadget into the lighter,
then disconnect the 12 V battery.  When done, hook up the 12 V battery
and unplug the gadget.

Matt Roberds
