From: "ronnie chase" <ronniechase(-at-)worldnet.att.net>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 22:05:38 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Headliner Help

They have headliners for buses similar to what you describe using in the
square. A 56 passenger bus would have come with a cloth headliner rather
than the vinyl. A 56 kombi would not have had a fabric headliner of any
sort, they had a piece of hardboard over the driver and front seat passenger
area. This makes things a little messy for you as the kombis had slots the
hard board slid into on the side of the overhead vent  while the passenger
buses had retaining teeth(for lack of a better word) that bend to hold a
metal strip(plastic in the new ones) in the cloth headliner to keep it all
in place. Looking at it I'd think you could get by with fastening the edge
of the headliner to a strip of wood and then screwing the wood to the bus
where the teeth would be. If you can't picture where the teeth are or how
they would work p-mail me and I'll send you a digital picture of them in my
64.
Personally I would just stay stock.

There are also bows. I've been told they are sold new but are to long and
need to be trimmed to fit proper, never used them myself. Glue does alot of
the holding up too. If you go with fabric you'll need the triangle(sorta)
hard board pieces that that go behind the sunvisors as they hide the messy
ends
of the front cab area pieces. Those are sold new somewhere, wolfsburg west
maybe. In my old 63 standard there was a large piece of hard board that
covered the area where the forth square window would be in a deluxe too.
Don't know if anyone is making that or not. you could aquire used or make
one from the water proof hard board they sell at upolstery supply shops.

A local guy and I attempted to put a headliner in his 21 window recently and
learned the hard way the the 3m #90 IS NOT the glue of choice. TMI will
recomend this glue but they are wrong and if you use it you will be sorry.
It held up fine until the weather hit 95 degrees outside and it all just let
go. We have since learned from a local upolstery shop that they use a glue
meant for the vinyl tops so popular on 70's cars. It's meant to take a lot
of heat and temperature changes, and it's way cheaper than the 3m too.

ronnie(non og)


> 1) Are the headliners fabric white with holes, like a 67 Square back?  The
> reason I ask is that I put a headliner in a square back once.
>
> 2) Do the headliners have wires/rob that hold them up?  Can I buy new ones
> somewhere?
>
> 3) Besides the material and maybe wires what other hardware is there?
>
> Any other advice?
