From: "Jason W" <bugginmiami(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 17 Jul 2003 12:04:13 -0400
Subject: Re: got it

  I have a method for alignment that seems pretty self obvious to me but 
some Ive heard from friends locally are so laughable maybe its not quite as 
obvious as it seems to me.  Heres how i do it..
a) check to make sure steering wheel is tight (this just got me on my bus, 
ive never had a problem on a bug, but the PO of my bus made his own key and 
it was loose and cost me some time
b) go uderneath while someone is above moving the steering wheel around back 
and forth, they
shouldnt be moving the wheels, just seeing where the play is. The tie rod 
ends are probably worn
if the bus is new to you and has been neglected (like mine). I ended up 
changing all of them. No need doing an alighnment with obvious play. If the 
play is in the steering box you cant really do much, except replace. There 
is an adjustment but ive never done it know you can do more harm than good. 
If the play is in the center pin, you can still do a home alignment, but it 
wont drive 100%.
c) jack up the bus and wiggle the front wheels at 3and 9 oclock and 12 and 6 
oclock. There should be
almost no play. (nows a good time to inspect and adjust front brakes too) 
Check bearings for play by wiggling the wheels. Its should move freely 
except for brake drag. Maybe have someone wiggle it all the ways while you 
look underneeth for where any play is (links). Clean anything on the front 
beam thats grimy (my whole front beam was). Grease. Grease some more.
d) if alls well and seems cool, then align..

Move the bus back and forward to where it is, make sure its settled the way 
it rolls, (not just came off a jack, not in a strange place on the cement, 
etc. Just naturally settled, with wheels straight.
Get 2 2x4's,  cut them about 2.5-3 feeth long. Make a mark in the middle. 
Put the boards next to the wheels on the outside with the middle  mark lined 
up wtih the spindle nut as close as possible. Snug them up to the tires, i 
usually put a cement block up against them so they are snugged up right. 
Then measure the front of the board to the front of the other, back of the 
board to the back of the other. Idually is a little toe in (1/8"?) so when 
you move straight, and play brings the tires striaight. Rather than toe out, 
when you move they toe out more. If you have to jack up the bus to make the 
adjustment to the tie rods (if you know they are off, have them loose 
already),  resettle it before you measure again. Ive had good luck with this 
method. Ive seen people try to measure it to the body and tires and NEVER 
been convinced it can be accurate at al that way.
good luck
jasonw

>From: "Jason Starbird" <JasonStarbird(-at-)att.net>
>Subject: got it!
>
>nicer with the new tires! The steering effort is greatly reduced now i also
>noticed. I still need to read up on doing an alighnment. Is it ok for me to
>do the alighnment? Or is it better to take it somewhere and have it done? I
>would guess that it would be pretty simple? Just need a tape measure? I
>drove it over to a body shop and they can straighten out and re-weld my 
>rear
>upper shock mount for me for 60 bucks at the most. Have to wait till Monday
>for that. So overall it was a great success! Too dang hot to do much else
>with it today....Have to wait till this evening. I don't want to drive it
>very much anyway, until I can get that shock mount fixed. Thanks for all 
>the
>helpful tips !
>Jason
