Date: Thu, 17 Jul 2003 19:04:36 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Beginner's Mistake...Help!

>From: susan <a451301(-at-)Access4Less.net>
>Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 20:35:37 -0700
>
>[...] but my bus has an extra electrical box next to the voltage
>regulator (Bosch, 6V unit, part # 0 332 003 016) to and from which
>several cables go.

Putting that Bosch part number into Google reveals that it is a relay of
some kind - some people refer to it specifically as a "starter relay."
It could be for anything, but most likely it was installed to cure a
problem starting the Bus when hot.  (The next possibility is maybe a
relay for dual batteries, but I think that was only done on 12 V Westies.)

Does your Bus start and run without it?  Do the warning lights in the
speedometer, brake lights, turn signals, headlights, wipers all work
without it?  If so, tape up the wire ends individually and puzzle it
out later.  :)

If it's a "hot start" relay, though, your Bus probably won't start
without it being hooked up.  Assuming that's what you've got, I'd try
something like this...

You've probably got four wire ends and four terminals on the relay they
can go on, or maybe three wire ends and three terminals on the relay.
The relay should have numbers either stamped near the terminals or printed
on the can - something like 85, 86, 87, and 30.  If there's only three
terminals they might be labeled 86, 87, and 30.

You'll need a test light for this.  First, make sure the key is off and
that none of the wire ends are touching the body of the Bus.  Hook up
the battery.  Ground one end of the test light to the negative terminal of
the battery, and try the other end of the test light to each of the four
(three) wires.  Only one of them should light the test light, and if there
is only one like this, plug it on to terminal 30 on the relay.  (If you
follow this wire, the other end should go to the positive terminal on
the battery, or to the positive terminal on the starter where the big fat
wire from the battery is bolted on.)  If no or more than one wire lights
the test light, this may not be a hot start relay and you should stop now.

If only one wire lit the light and it's now on terminal 30, keep reading.
Keep one end of your test light connected to the negative terminal of
the battery.  You'll need a friend up front to turn the key to the "start"
position and hold it there while you try the other end of the test light
to the three (two) wires remaining.  If none of them, or more than one of
them, lights the light, this may not be a hot start relay and you should
stop now.  Assuming only one of the wires lit the light, keep the test
light connected to that wire while your friend turns the key between "off"
and "start" a few times, to verify that the test light comes on in "start"
and goes off in "off".  If this is the case, plug this wire on to terminal
86 on the relay.  (If you follow this wire, it should go near the starter,
possibly join with another wire, and then go into a bundle of wires.)

If you've now got two wires on the relay, you've got two or one wire(s)
left.  Key off.  Connect one end of your test light to the _positive_
terminal of the battery and try the other end to each wire you've got
left.  If you've only got one wire, the test light will probably glow
sort of dimly.  If you've got two wires, the test light will light up
on both wires, but one will be a bit dimmer than the other.   If your
results are other than this, this may not be a hot start relay and you
should stop now.

Pick the wire that made the light glow more dimly.  (If you follow this
wire, it should go to a small terminal on the starter.)  Make sure the Bus
is out of gear and the parking brake is on.  Very quickly, tap the end of
the wire you've picked against the wire going to terminal 30 on the relay.
You may get a spark, but what you want is to hear the clack or growl of
the starter trying to kick in.  Do not leave this connection connected
for longer than half a second!  Just a tap of the one wire end against
the other.  If the wire you picked does indeed make the starter growl,
plug it on to terminal 87 on the relay, and if you've got a wire left,
plug it on to terminal 85 on the relay.  (If you follow this wire - the
one you just plugged on to terminal 85 - it should go to ground: battery
negative terminal, body, or engine case.)  If the wire you picked doesn't
make the starter growl, and you have another wire, try tapping the other
wire quickly (again, no more than half a second) against 30 on the relay.
If this wire makes the starter growl, plug it on to 87 on the relay.
If not, this may not be a hot start relay and you should stop now.

If you have one wire left, plug it on to 85 on the relay.  (If you
follow this wire - the one you just plugged onto terminal 85 - it
should go to ground: battery negative terminal, body, or engine case.)
If you don't have a wire left, make sure the relay is securely mounted
(probably with a screw) to the Bus body.

Make sure the battery cables are firmly connected, but stand ready with
a wrench.  Have your friend up front hit the key.  If the starter starts
turning, you did good!  If the starter doesn't start turning immediately,
have your friend get off the key, and disconnect the negative battery
strap.

If you couldn't get the starter to spin, or you hit one of the "you
should stop now" conditions above, you'll probably need a local guru.
The list _may_ be able to help further if you post back giving _all_
the markings on the relay and the numbers and colors of the wire ends
you have.  This relay was probably installed by a previous owner of your
Bus and won't show up in any stock wiring diagram.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
