From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 2003 10:01:22 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] soldering fuse box

In a message dated 7/18/2003 5:48:30 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net writes:

> I will try that option next...and probably ask you then exactly how to do 
> that...i am not sure exactly how to install a relay for the switch.

Hi Kevin,
While it is a pain to find and solve a voltage drop in a wiring system we 
suggest you keep at it!  Installing a headlight relay should only be done if you 
are planning on running headlights with a wattage higher than 60 Watts each.  
If you do not solve finding the voltage drop and just install a headlight 
relay, other systems will remain affected by the voltage drop like slower dimmer 
signals, slower wipers, and even harder starting due to not enough voltage 
making from the starter solinoid through the fuse box, head light switch, to the 
ignition switch, and back to the starter solinoid.  In otherwords you would 
have to install alot more relays to fix everything and this would just make for 
bigger wiring headaches later. 
  BTW!  You should also check that your gen/alt/reg are putting out a little 
over 7 volts for a 6 volt system to properly charge the battery and supply 
enough voltage to the rest of the wiring in your VW.  We helped a fellow from 
Hawai with a 58 Westie that had the year before been restored by Charlie Hammil 
the year before.  The head light dimmer switch was shunting about two volts of 
power to the headlight filament that was supposed to be off, and it turned out 
the NOS voltage regulator was only putting out 6.5 volts.  You literally 
could not safely drive this bus at night unless the roadway had alot of light 
poles about!  After just replacing the head light dimmer switch the headlights 
went from a very dim yellow to a very drivable brightness.
   Some dimmer switches can need soldering where the male electrical tabs are 
riveted to the dimmer switch body to help prevent another voltage dropage 
area.
Eric&Barb
