From: "Malgiero" <chrisroc(-at-)surfbest.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 19 Jul 2003 14:03:54 -0400
Subject: brake upgrade, heater channels, fuel gauge, rivets

    Hi folks. Long time lurker, first time participant here.
    I am currently poor-man-restoring a '64 kombi with a (could-be)EZ camper
kit. The plan is to travel with my wife crosscountry for several months. Long
story short: this has been a long time in coming and we've got to get moving
before the desire to have kids outweighs the call of the road.
    As the resto has been progressing, several problems/questions have
arisen:
1. I'd like to do the dual circuit brake upgrade. Is there any experienced
based opion as to the quality of the Brasilian master cylinders. Obviously
they are less pricey than the Germans, but I see that the available spacer kit
fits these without any machining to the mc.
2. As far as the mc goes, I take it I want 211 611 021 AA. cp1.com sells this
and the spacer kit. Any experience out there with these?
3.The heater channels running from the exchangers to the cam were encased in
what looks to be a fiberglass lined vinyl wrapper that was heat sealedalong
its length. The ends were clamped tight. I had to remove them to inspect for
corrosion and low and behold, they were perfectly clean. The shiny gray paint
was a stark contrast to the filth encrusted underside of the beast. The only
corrosion was at the ends where the wrap did not extend. Question: Is this
stuff still available or, failing that, is it possible to reattach the wrap
and re-seal it (aside from duct tape) I'm certain it helped in retaining the
heat.
4. Do the vdo after-market fuel gauges work with the original senders? What
are my options?
5. Are the rivet pliers and the rivets available that the manual instructs us
to use to re-rivet the ventwing window to the frame? My only experienc with
rivets is with the pop type and that's all I seem to find anywhere.
    Sorry for the long message. Even so, I'm sure there is something I forgot
to ask. Thanks for your help and thanks for being there in the first place.
Your existence has already been a big help just by reading the posts on a
daily basis.
    I'm currently working on a site to document the resto and the trip as
well. I hope to have it up soon. Sorry! Message getting longer.
    Rocco Malgiero
