Date: Sat, 19 Jul 2003 16:44:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Malgiero <chrisroc(-at-)surfbest.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] brake upgrade, heater channels, fuel gauge, rivets

Hello Malgiero,

Traveling cross country is a fun experience (I know, I;ve done it many
times). Lessee, your questions:

> based opion as to the quality of the Brasilian master cylinders.

Can't help on the MC, but...

> 4. Do the vdo after-market fuel gauges work with the original senders?
What are my options?

I would think that they will work. The senders are only variable resistor
elements. Pretty universal I would expect.

> 5. Are the rivet pliers and the rivets available that the manual
instructs us to use to re-rivet the ventwing window to the frame? My only
experience with rivets is with the pop type and that's all I seem to find
anywhere.

The kind folks at Wolfsburg West had the rivets at the time, 1994. My
resto shop had the tool, but they showed me that with the correct rivet, a
vise grip pliers would set the rivet in just fine as well.

> 3.The heater channels running from the exchangers to the cam were encased in

McMasterCarr sells a closed-cell elastomer sleeving, the inside diameter
of which should fit your existing ductwork. You can cut it, and tape/clamp it
around the ducts as needed. I replaced the entire line from heat muffler
to cabin duct-entry with a single run of silicone impregnated hosing and
covered with elastomer insulating sleeving, cut into parts to accomodate
the framework. I POR'd the sleeving as well. The heating upfront is
excellent now. The materials are a bit pricey, but it sure worked! If you
choose to go this route, measure your frame/hardware/etc, and make sure
that the ID/OD's that I picked below are correct for you. With a full
replacement, the measures below I believe were correct for me (1994).
Make sure the ID of the sleeving is firm on the OD of the hose (you have
several to choose from in each catagory - McMaster catalog).

The following is the catalog pages and descriptions from
their online catalog:

http://www.mcmaster.com/
Page 168
High-Temperature Silicone-Coated Fiberglass
Construction: Orange-red, 2-ply fiberglass fabric with silicone coating
Reinforcement: Spring-steel wire helix and a fiberglass cord bonded to
cover
Temperature Range:
-75 to +500 F
2 1/2" ID,	  2.65" OD,	 55125K78	11.28	9.03

http://www.mcmaster.com/
Page 3229
Elastomer Foam Rubber Pipe, Tube, and Fitting Insulation
2 5/8" ID, 	6 ft.	 4463K143 	8.45

cal
