From: "Christopher Walker" <toph(-at-)tophu4u.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 26 Aug 2003 20:47:56 -0500
Subject: Engine won't idle after top end rebuild - need help

Dear Volks,

 

I am going through my first adventure of getting my Van running after
doing a top end overhaul.  Problem is that she won't idle.  I would
appreciate any advice based on your experience to help me "tune" my
engine or find out what needs to be fixed.

 

First some background.  I lost compression in #4 cylinder and the
apparent cause was gauged (sp?) pushrod tips which I believe were caused
by a poor valve adjustment on my part.  I had a machinist inspect the
cylinder head of #3 and #4 cylinder and he said it looked fine.  I am
hopping that my valve seats are still good.  I did not have the money
for new heads so I only put on a new set of cylinders.

 

The only other major new items that I replaced were all the mechanical
lifters with hydraulic lifters - to include new pushrods.  I ended up
making my own pushrods and did my best to get them all the same length
per the hydraulic length spec.

 

Compression on all four cylinders is greater than 100.  I have a good
blue spark from the coil and all four spark plugs spark fine.  I have a
new fuel pump which is putting out 40# of pressure.

 

I also put in a new TempII sensor which appears to be working fine.

 

I gapped the points to spec and statically timed the ignition to 7.5
BTDC.

 

Once the lifters were pumped up I adjusted the valves to 1.5 turns in
from 0 clearance and this seemed to prevent it from starting.  When I
adjust the valves at .006 in the engines starts and will run as long as
my foot is on the gas. Once the engine is hot it will not start right
away until I let it cool down.

 

What are the most common variables to suspect when "tunning" an engine
which has not run in a while.  Do I just need to break it in by letting
it run for half an hour?  Any suggestions?

 

Thank You for your time,

 

Christopher Walker

Network Technician

Oxford Communications

Houston, TX

1-713-223-5424
