Date: Wed, 27 Aug 2003 12:07:00 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scmills21(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: tuned exhaust

>Any idea where the stuff was made...?-( Not that it "should" matter, but from
>this list (and three other semi-orphan car lists that I'm on) the consensus
>seems to be a general decline in product quality even from previously 
>dependable
>"brand names"...

Does anyone know if Empi or Bugpack is licensing their names out? When I 
worked at Advance Auto I was told by a Regional Manager than AC Delco had 
nothing to do with some of the AC Delco alternators on the shelf but that 
they were licensing their name to some other company than was actually 
remanufacturing the alternators and starters. For a while quality got so 
bad we had to test the new ones before we'd let them go across the counter 
b/c so many pissed off customers were coming back with dead-on-arrival 
alternators. I'd be mad too if I spent over an hour taking the old 
alternator off, another hour installing the new one, and then a third hour 
taking the new off in anticipation of retrieving a 2nd "new" alternator to 
install for a 4th hour of work....

I now stay away from several of the VW -aftermarket brands because the 
rubber often dies in a year and the exhaust systems soon after. I had an 
Empi dual quiet pack once (circa 1993) that was so bad I rewelded the 
mounting tabs about 5 times in a year before it began to rot through. 1/8" 
steel tab welded to thin sheet metal of muffler. Rips off after about 3rd 
bump. Weld new 4" x 4" thicker sheetmetal over tab mount location, weld tab 
to that.  That's $125 for a system that lasted only 15K miles or so with no 
salt water and no snow during that time.

I take a close look at the current OEM designs and try to apply that to my 
own systems. Rubber mounts, substantial thickness wall tubing, steel items 
welded to steel items of similar thicknesses. Not easy nor cheap but they 
last longer. I'll be looking at stainless steel next time I suspect.

Some current aftermarket parts seem to cater to easy and cheap. Neither are 
reached for long as most parts I've bought had to be "rebuilt" to fit and 
they don't last long enough to pay for themselves. Shop very carefully....






Chris Mills in TN
