From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 27 Aug 2003 17:29:33 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Question about normal running oil temperature

	List Volks:

	Pedro wroted intially:  "... All the tin is there. The thermostat
system is missing but that doesn't bother me at all."

	And then John wroted thusly:  "If the thermostat system is missing
the engine will run all kind of crazy hot/cold, and it must be installed."

	And then Andy wroted responsively: "...i know you are experienced
but i think youre crying wolf on this one."

	And then the p*ssing/squabbling REALLY began in dead earnest (like
those 2 maggots in jokes of yesteryear).

	I have only probably seen less than 1 tenth of the numbers of motors
John has ever seen, but every seriously effed and boogered T4 motor I've
ever had the sublime pleasure of autopsying during my speckled career was
lacking the thermostat system.  And by system I mean from spectacles to
t*st*cl*s - thermostat, bracket, cable, and flap assembly.  My '73 Deluxe
came with 4 (count 'em, 4) dead or dying 2.0L Type 4s, all run into the
ground and an early death the D*p-Sh*t PO who insisted on removing just
about every piece of tin or seal not immediately associated ducting the air
flow out of the impeller...  The last one standing had intake valve seats
retreating up the ports on one head and burnt exhaust valves on the other,
every seal was hard as a rock.  PO said "It didn't leak oil..." - mostly
'cause there was none left to leak out...  You cannot and will not improve
on the system provided by removing those pesky flaps in the impeller
housing.

	OTOH all my T4s with their spectacles and t*st*cl*s firmly in place
have lasted years and at least 1.3 dozen kilo-miles, with supple, yet firm
un-leaking seals, un-melted cylinder heads, quick warm-ups, and other such
balder-dash and tom-foolery.  Do ya 'spose there's a connection?  Well, do
ya? <pause>  Punk?  Are ya feeling lucky? <pause>  Punk?

	You want to run without the "thermostat system"?  Have fun, and
don't be crying to the list and wasting everyone's time about short-lived
your expensive T4 motor was...  So unless your motor is running 25/8/366,
sooner or later it's going to be shut off and it will cool off, and "Whaddya
know?" - it's going to need to quickly and evenly come up to operating
temperature once again.  Something the "thermostat system" can do for you -
wasn't it so very thoughtful of the factory to install it for you?  Please
don't bore us with apocryphal tales of how the thermostat will fail and
roasticate your motor - if all the pieces are there it can't.  Study it
carefully.  It pops open, the tension goes out of the cable, the flaps are
sprung to the "normal" operation mode, and air flows over the cylinders and
through the oil cooler.

	If you don't have it and you want to put it back in - see the good
folks at BustedBus and they can set you up for not too much money.  And for
you T1 guys without the flaps and thermostat?  They have them too - the
whole 9-yards AND a new thermostat for $89!  I just bought the whole rig
this morning for the beautiful wife's '69 KG :-)
	
	Jim Hayden
	Still Driving a Bunch of Air Cooleds (w/Thermostat Systems)
	And Who is Displeased with Those Who Would Slag Thermostats in
General
	www.savethebays.org
