Date: Mon, 1 Oct 2007 13:56:05 -0700
From: "Shana Nelson" <martianmade(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: won't start...again. what else could it be?

Long time lurker, first time poster :)

First, electronics are NOT my forte....

Problem:  1973 bus won't start.  the dash lights dim when key is turned to
start, but nothing else happens (well, nothing except the ticking sound I
always hear when key is in the on position...presumably something to do w/
the electronic ignition I was told about when I bought the bus)

Scenario when the problem started:  driving along enjoying myself, generator
light comes on, I make it home and turn off the bus.  tried to restart right
away and it gave me that slow turnover sound that you get when the battery
is dying.  tried again, even slower turnover sound. tried again, nothing.

History:  I had this same problem a couple months ago.  Took it to the shop
where they replaced the ignition switch after which it started up better
than ever.  When it was at the shop they tested the battery, starter, and
alternator....all tested good.

It's worth noting that the PO did some wacky dash wiring.....horn button is
stuck so the horn is wired to a knob in the dash, reverse lights w/ audible
sound are wired to a switch in the dash (which incidentally also stopped
working around the same time it stopped starting), stereo was wired somehow
that it cut out every time I hit the brakes (I fixed that problem by pulling
the stereo out :-P).  The guy at the shop thought I had an alarm system
installed because of all the crazy wiring under the dash.  I took a look
under there myself, but I'm not really sure what I'm looking at.  Although I
did find quite a few wires that are connected somewhere at one end, but just
hang unconnected at the other end.

So I've ruled out battery, starter, and alternator as the problem since they
all tested good.  Could the ignition switch have gone bad again?  If so,
what would cause that to keep happening?  What else should I look for?

I apologize in advance for any specific info about my bus that would help
but I left out :)

Thanks,
Shana

'73 bus, Sundance
