Date: Mon, 25 Sep 2006 10:39:27 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: short in dash / brake warning circuit?

Its kinda long, but I wanted to get all the info I could think was
related into the first mailing.  I think there's a short in either the
dash or the brake alert circuit.  Any help welcome.

First, the symptoms.
without turning anything on, engine running:
slightly lit GEN light.
brake warning light ON.

application of turn signal:
causes fuel gauge to pin at "E", turn indicators don't light.
turn signals (outside of bus) don't light.

application of brakes:
brake lights don't light.
brake warning light doesn't flicker, stays on.

turn on headlight switch to first position:
running light (that little green one) in dash lights up.
front running lights light up.  not sure about the others, I didn't
check.

turn on headlight switch to full-out position:
headlights light up.

Now, how this came to be, starting with the stuff I messed with most
recently:
I got some of the heat routing corrected yesterday.  I also re-routed
the gas fumes hoses.  I saw that the battery ground strap wasn't 100%
tight, so I tightened it.  Ran a fresh wire from the oil temp sender
under the bus up through to behind the dash.  Didn't connect it to
anything (the old one wasn't connected either, this is a slowly moving
project).  Ran thicker wire for interior lighting running off 2nd
battery.
I started the bus this morning, with the usual dash lights and started
off.  At the bottom of the hill, I turned the corner and the lights
look like I described at the top.  I pulled over, and set to looking
for the short in the tail lights.  All the grounds looked good, but I
pulled and cleaned them anyway.  Problem still there.  Turned the bus
around and headed home.  Thought it might have had something to do with
the 2nd battery circuit, and switched it off.  Checked the lights, and
they were fine, but 100 yards away from home, they went batty again. 
Checked the connections at the VR, seemed solid.

Any ideas?
I'm thinking I either loosened the brake warning circuit when I was
running that oil temp wire, or I loosened something behind the dash
when I ran that wire behind there.  Any other ideas would be welcome.

Thanks in advance,
Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (hapy) 1700, Weber 32/36, ACN SVDA (compufire), blue coil,
'78 2nd battery circuit. that's all I can think of that might be relevant.
