Date: Tue, 26 Sep 2006 00:13:44 -0500
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)ev1.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Turbo Bus update

Progress on the turbobus in the past five weeks - I removed the tired 
2-liter engine from my bus and cleaned up the engine compartment. 
115,000 miles and ten years have not been kind to the old engine, 
although it still ran remarkably well.  Removed the fuel vapor canister 
and the bracket that holds it up as I won't be needing that anymore.

I acquired a radiator out of a Scirocco (apparently prized by hotrodders 
because of their small size and low profile) and had it rebuilt.  It 
will fit perfectly inside the engine compartment.  I will be able to use 
the existing overflow tank and temperature sensor for the fans, once I 
figure out what fans to use.

Bought a FI fuel tank so I will have a return line, which the diesel 
injection pump requires.  I didn't want to use the "Tee" solution or the 
"returning fuel through the vent" solution.  Haven't installed the new 
fuel tank yet but before I do I will be covering the inner walls of the 
fuel tank compartment with Q-pads.  That area transmits huge amounts of 
noise into the interior of the bus.

The Vanagon diesel bellhousing I bought just isn't going to work. I need 
five inches of clearance above the top of the transaxle for the 
top-mounted starter and there ain't anywhere near that much. I would 
have to cut far into the frame member that supports the bellhousing AND 
lower the entire motor/tranny assembly another inch or two for it to 
fit. I don't want to do that. In addition, the vanagon bellhousing HAS 
NO provisions for mounting so I would have to fab up something custom. I 
thought about just not having any support at the bellhousing (relying on 
just the engine mounts and front tranny mount for everything) but I 
don't think that's enough. The front tranny mount is not as beefy as the 
one on the Vanagon and I don't trust it to hold that much weight.

Fortunately there is KEP. I called and Mr. Kennedy himself answered the 
phone. Real nice guy and knows his stuff. I ordered the conversion kit 
with the 228mm flywheel (30 day backlog, d'ohhh!). This will require me 
to buy a new starter and clutch kit but it will solve the bellhousing 
mount and starter location problem (it uses the stock bellhousing and 
starter location). It also solves my clutch cable problem and I will get 
a stronger clutch. The KEP adapter plate is drilled for three 
orientations which will give me some flexibility, though I am pretty 
much sold on the 50-degree orientation due to ground clearance issues. 
It will be nice to have a shiny new billet flywheel and a KEP sticker 
for the back window.  :-)

I found an 091 bellhousing (more-or-less required for the 228mm clutch, 
thank you Marcus Schaper!), mounted it up and it fits perfectly.  I know 
in the past I have said that the 091 bellhousing is 1/2" thicker than 
the 002 bellhousing.  I am pretty sure I wasn't dreaming, but the two I 
have side by side now are the same thickness!  The only explanation I 
can come up with is that the 091 bellhousing I had before was off of an 
unusual tranny with 5.43 gears (Euro-only 1600 upright 091) so maybe it 
was not the same thickness as US-spec 091 bellhousings.  Anyway, SORRY 
for the misinformation - go ahead and put the 091 bellhousing on your 
002 trans, it will fit perfectly.

Next up, remove TD engine from Quantum, replace gaskets/seals, wait for 
KEP adapter and new clutch kit.  When those arrive, bolt motor to tranny 
and begin fabricating engine mount adapter brackets.

Major issues remaining:

     How to plumb turbo oil return line into the stock Vanagon oil 
pan 		    (which has no fitting for it because it was non-turbo, AND 
it's
     aluminum which complicates things).  I'm thinking of having an AN
     fitting welded into the pan.

     Fans for the radiator.

     Engine mount brackets.


I want to weld something now, but I'm going to have to wait a few weeks.

-David
