To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Gary Watts <garyb(-at-)fatmedia.com>
Date: Tue, 26 Sep 2006 00:20:46 -0700
Subject: Minimum operating speed.

I found that there is a minimum operating speed for my 77 Rivi.  I  
was stuck in stop and go traffic on 520 in Seattle.  The average  
speed was about 8 mph.

Just as I crossed the entrance to the Bridge over lake washington,  
the engine died.  Thinking that maybe I was not putting out enough  
juice to keep the alternator charging everything, I tried to start it  
hoping that once it kicked over I would keep it at a high idle.   It  
tried to start, backfired and let out a huge plume of gray smoke from  
the engine compartment.   I put on the blinkers and called 911 so  
that they would know that I was blocking the right lane.   An officer  
pushed me across the bridge to a spot I could pull off the road until  
a tow truck could show up.

While waiting I looked in the engine compartment.  A vacuum hose that  
runs from the S-shaped fitting on the carb to the crankcase had  
popped off.  I reached in to reseat it and it was to hot to touch.    
I let everything cool down and had the tow truck take me to my  
friends shop.   The shop was closed, but at least if I couldn't fix  
it, he could in the morning.

Borrowing a flashlight I checked the entire engine compartment.  I  
had blown all the vacuum hoses off of the fittings around the air  
intake.   My guess is that the engine compartment had gotten so hot  
that the large one slipped off, then when it backfired, the rest  
popped off.  Once I got them all back in place, the engine fired  
right up.   I could still hear a slight vacuum leak, but at least I  
could drive the van another 5 miles home and work on it there.

I've driven my van slow before, I am in a fair amount of parades in  
Seattle, but I have never had it running at near idle for so long in  
80 degree heat.   Now I'm worried that this may happen again in the  
middle of a parade.

What suggestions do you have for keeping the engine cool when you are  
driving it too slow for a lot of air to flow through?

Gary
Seattle
