Date: Tue, 26 Sep 2006 21:36:26 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] removing catalytic converter from 77 bus

Jim Thompson is his usual solid technical self:
>
>There will be higher pollution levels without the converter, but the expense
>of replacing one due to having to possibly use leaded gasoline (not
>necessarily "bad gas", but harmful to the catalysts,) in Central America may
>be perhaps worth the effort during the journey.  Unleaded gas of most any
>quality doesn't usually harm the converter though.

	I think my backward country was the last to prohibit lead 
additives (PbR4) in petrol.  Leaded fuel will certainly cruel the 
catalyst, abolishing its antipollution function, but the other 
functions of the exhaust system will be unaffected if you do strike 
any leaded fuel.  Some of the cheap petrol in certain latin Amer. 
countries may be off-specs in other ways but I can't see them 
mattering for a cat conv or an oxygen sensor.  Therefore I can't see 
point in intervening before the trip.
	Your main troubles will be with more humble gear such as 
rigged petrol-bowser meters.  I once gasped on empty into a remote 
Mexican bowser station (i.e forecourt of a general store & cantina) 
very late at night with a half-doz fellow students in my '57 
splittie.  We'd all become rather anxious at the prospect of running 
out of fuel on a dark desert highway in what we imagined to be bandit 
country, so we cheered when the tiny outpost loomed in the dust. 
We'd probably have burst into 'Hotel California' but that song had 
not yet been written.  Filled up and drove off in relief; then after 
a mile did a Laurel & Hardy double-take, belatedly realising the 
ratio pesos/litres had been the wrong way.  A U-turn took us back to 
find the kid in charge of the bowsers holding the exact refund in his 
hand.  The figures on one side of the bowser were somehow rigged  - 
he hadn't zeroed the meters since our fill-up, so the evidence was 
stark  -  but on the other side read the correct ratio of pesos to 
litres.  We all tried to heavy the lad but actually had difficulty 
keeping straight faces and thought it a memorable joke.

	May I indulge my Kiwi patriotism again?  Oxygen sensors in 
exhausts were pioneered by a colleague of mine, Dr Geo Blanshard, 
mechanical engineer of U Auckland.  They cost ca.$300 back then just 
for the sensor itself.  Geo realised it's unsound to control only 
what goes in the front i.e fuel/air ratio by controlling injectors 
but then not monitor what comes out the back.  Better control will be 
achieved if you actually measure the combustion-product gases and 
arrange feedback from this info to help control what goes in the 
front.  BMW etc soon afterward latched onto this simple concept.
	I suppose I should come clean on the fact that Geo is a Pom, 
not a native-born Kiwi.  But he sure adopted NZ and led some 
developments in computer-controlled engines.  Me, I hate 'em.  I've 
just hacksawed thru the choke shaft on the BIGGER Solex I'm preparing 
for my '73 1600.  The main gasket is missing.  The metal faces are 
fine (scraped with a knife)  -  has anyone used Hylomar as the sole 
gasket on that key joint?

R

>
>  > any reason not to remove the  catalytic converter from a 77 camper bus and
>>  just put  in a straight pipe ?
>>  its a California model , but not registered in California anymore,
>>  my friend wants to drive it down to Central America and is afraid the
>>  catalytic  converter  will get clogged up with bad gas,
>>  Will it run any different?
>  > thanks for your thoughts
