Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Tue, 26 Sep 2006 12:49:07 -0400
To: Gary Watts <garyb(-at-)fatmedia.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Minimum operating speed.

Hi Gary,

Sounds like a glitch in the ignition or fuel system probably  
triggered the stall and backfire. A properly adjusted engine should  
idle all day long in 80 degree weather without complaint.  The engine  
generates a LOT more heat at high speed than it does at idle, and  
even with the cooling fan rpms at a lower rate I never see more than  
200 degrees of head temps at idle.

A properly operating electrical system should have no problem keeping  
the FI well fed. Think of it this way: The power requirements have to  
scale up in direct proportion to RPM. If there's not enough power at  
low rpms, there won't be enough at high rpms either. (Exception: if  
you're running high-amp accessories at idle you need a bigger  
alternator).

Your stall could have been caused by something as simple as bad fuel  
or a loose electrical connection.

Suggestions for future piece of mind:

1. Make sure EVERY seal in the engine compartment is in place to  
prevent hot air from the exhaust from re-entering the engine  
compartment. The vents from the heater boxes to the auxiliary blower  
should be capped off if the hoses are out of place. Also be sure to  
plug the gaps at spark plug holes, the alternator adjustment slot  
cover, the oil pressure switch wire, rear door seal, etc, etc, etc.

2. VW originally fitted a heat shield between the rear tin and the  
muffler. If this is missing (as is often the case) the muffler can  
heat the rear tin to the point where it will contribute heat to the  
air entering the intake fan. Find or fabricate a replacement for this  
part.

3. Verify Ignition timing and valve adjustment. You want to make sure  
that the spark is happening when it's supposed to and that the valves  
will get rid of  the exhaust gases as efficiently as possible.

4. Running a higher grade of fuel will help avoid pre-ignition and  
could help reduce heat build-up in the cylinders. At least in theory.  
If your engine gets hot enough to start pinging at idle then you have  
a problem elsewhere.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/75/77/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
www.busesofthecorn.com


On 26-Sep-06, at 3:20 AM, Gary Watts wrote:

> What suggestions do you have for keeping the engine cool when you  
> are driving it too slow for a lot of air to flow through?
