Date: Thu, 28 Sep 2006 09:32:07 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Ken Dunn <kennydunn(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Adjusting FI mixture without an EGA

If you can, have an o2 bung welded in your exhaust and rent a wideband 
02 sensor.  Those narrowband 02 sensors won't tell you much other than 
stoich, as that's what they're designed to do.  Actually, it's even 
worse with the stock VW EFI as it'll *never* hang out at stoich, and the 
meter reading will fly all over the place.  The stock system is not very 
advanced and trying to tune it with a narrow band o2 sensor will tell 
you it's running rich or lean, and that's about it.  I tried it myself 
and it really didn't tell me much at all.

Now, on the other hand, I have a megasquirt installed and you can 
actually see the o2 sensor hanging out at stoich, but that's because the 
computer is listening to the o2 feedback and adjusting the mixture 
accordingly.  It is actually pretty good at holding it at a specific 
mixture, but I'm still not very trusting of that narrowband o2 sensor 
and meter to be accurate according to what it says it's reporting.  I 
think I might rent one myself:

http://tinyurl.com/ll4t4

btw, if you do decide to install an o2 sensor, install it in either the 
3/4 header or 1/2 header.  That way the reading is fast and the sensor 
heats up quickly.  If you put it further downstream, the reading will be 
delayed and confusing.  Plus, even if you have a heated sensor (like I 
do), sometimes they still don't read well at idle when mounted 
downstream.  Obviously, you're only metering one side of the engine when 
it's installed in the header, and you're assuming that both sides are in 
the same tune.. .. . . you hope.  Once the megasquirt starts supporting 
2 o2 sensors (maybe it already does) I'll install one on the 1/2 side as 
well.

mike

Ken Dunn wrote:
> I thought this was going to be an easy thing to find but, none of my
> local shops still have an EGA.  That said, is there any way to
> determine and adjust fuel/air mixture without an EGA?  I picked up a
> used but recently rebuilt AFM at a swapmeet this past weekend and
