Date: Thu, 18 Oct 2001 18:18:17 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 78 FI Wiring Problem....


At 05:32 PM 10/18/2001 -0400, you wrote:
>
>Hello all,
>	I am in desperate need of your help.  I have a 78 bus that used to run
>fine. ....., and >undid all the wiring.  The were alot of shorts....... did 
not have time to finish the job.  I took it to a shop where they were able
to get
>everything back together except for the fuel injection part of the wiring at
>the fuse box..... is there anywhere that I can get the schematics to show
me how to
>rewire it.  Keep in
>mind that every wire was removed from its connections.  Any help will be
>greatly apprectiated, and yes, I promise to never do this again without more
>preparation.

The only thing you did wrong was not buy the Bentley first. I advise you
buy it before you buy the vehicle. Then you can do a proper inspection of
the candidates. Can easily save you 20 times the cost of the book if you
end up with an uninspected lemon.

If you don't want to buy the Bentley, find a shop that has the Bentley and
knows well how to apply it to the troubles at hand. If they can't produce
it, keep looking. Don't hire anyone who would purport to practice
electrical repair on a VW without the Bentley. All wires can be confirmed
with the codes given in The Bible, er, I mean, The Bentley, and any shop
duly qualified to touch your bus will verifed all suspect wires by removing
both ends and checking for resistance and good grounding or bad shorts, and
will take notes. When they are done every wire will be verified as to
function and position. 

Before I start such wiring diagnostics I make a copy of the appropriate
diagrams and keep my notes there, where terminals and items are replaced. I
draw in and identify all repairs/modifications and make sure the date and
VIN is written on there. I then keep a copy for my files and give the
custom diagram to the owner. Everything non-Bentley then can be added to
Bentley to make the work doable for the next bone head who must cifer out
the harness.

If you attack this yourself, after getting the Bentley diagrams, try this.

Check relays for heat stress. Purty Mandelbrot colors on the terminals ist
nicht zer gut=evidence of heat stress. Remove the cover. Inspect all the
solder connections with a hand glass. 4X ist better than 2X. Use good
light, open sunlight is der beste. Bright solder is the way it was when
new. If you got 8X, you can see the images of the vicinity in the
reflexion, yeah. There was no rosin stain when new=evidence of heat stress.
If you see a matte finish at the solder joints, what you see is the result
of temperature cycles in the 10's of
thousands=expand/contract/expand/contract/expand/contract/...... The solder
will be porous=resistant to electron flow=more heat than designed to cope
with. The joint will crack in a circle around the solder post eventually, a
very small circle and a very thin crack which is why you need 4X. Follow
the track of the multi-colored terminal to see the spattered solder. Have a
look at the points. More purty colors?? Ist toast.

Then follow the wire attached to that purty colors relay terminal and check
out things at the other end. 

On replacement terminals, if you can't find German, get the Anchor brand
designed for marine use and typically available at marinas and such as some
hardware chains. They function as well as stock, by being also of good
quality heavy treated metal. They won't be found on no-name peg-hooks or in
kits of a thousand with stripping/clamping tool of speciouse heritage for
$19.95. That will only get you a dozen or so good terminals, unless you
want to bulk order 100 for $80. 

Either find a shop familiar from experience and skilled by practice in
German vehicles, or invest in the Bentley and a reliable quality multimeter
and verify the circuitry yourself. Paying anybody to do it wrong is by far
the worst deal for both you and the vehicle. 


T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

