Date: Thu, 18 Oct 2001 20:38:16 -0700
To: Shawn Soucy <drumsetc(-at-)telus.net>
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: Window scrapers.

>I'm ready to install new window scrapers on the two front doors.  I hope
>the term is right.  The rubber seals/scrapers that keep water and grime
>out of the inside of the door.  The inside is more of a long brush.  The
>problem is,  I don't know if I need to remove the window to drill out
>the old ones, (they're riveted in).  Any suggestions?
>
>Shawn

heya shawn - there are eight (?) clips that live in the aluminum c-shaped
thing-a-ma-jigs on your doors' roll up window opening. the rubber is
riveted to that aluminum; the aluminum holds the rubber (in a perfect
world) to the window. if you don't want to re-use the window scraper, as i
suspect, push hard on the aluminum from the outside toward the inside until
all clips are clean-off from the door. you won't have to remove the big
window - just the vent wing. don't undo the roll up window nor the window
cranker. your new aluminum/rubber scraper clips right in. aftermarket has
only four clips, and the clips come installed already.

1) remove top felt beginning near the vent wing, continuing around to the
back - aka the rear window channel. 5 re-usable clips holds that in. leave
the felt on vent wing! 2) pry off rubber inside scraper, or at least first
three tabs, so as not to scorch that when 3) removing vent wing. vent has
one 10mm bolt and one philips screw at the top. you noticed that screw when
you started yanking the felt channel. pull vent wing back, then lift it up
and inside - mind the paint. 4) when removing the aluminum part of the
scraper there could be two tabs at the top and bottom holding the aluminum
to the door. un-tab them. remember to re-tab the new one in. 5) snap in the
new scraper. after the vent wing is replaced and the inside scraper is put
back, lay a regular screwdriver over that last half-inch of rubber and jam
it down between the door and the front track of the roll-up window before
you tighten the vent wing 10 mm bolt. keep in mind the aluminum scraper is
flimsy and bends easily.   - steve


