Date: Sun, 06 Jan 2002 19:42:27 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] 2.0L heads on a 2.0L engine

>A smaller chamber volume will result in a higher compression ratio than
>a larger chamber. A longer stroke without moving the cylinders further
>out (shims under the cylinder bases) will result in both a larger
>displacement and a higher compression ratio.

FWIW these are my comments, as many have noted the chamber, head,
whatever you want to call it volume is not swept, so mostly affects CR though
certainly it is volume for gas to be brought in.  Regardless it is about
55cc on
any of the T4 heads give or take, some as low as 52, some as high as 57, call
it 55cc.  AMC heads have a ledge added for more volume a lot of rebuilders
cut the same.

Next differences are valve size and the size the head is cut to, 1.7 heads
fit 1.7s
until bored for larger barrels.  1.8 and 2.0 are interchangeable.  Valve
sizes are
mostly.

1.7 39.3 x 33.0
1.8 41.0 x 34.0
2.0 (bus) 37.5 x 33.0
2.0 (914) 42,0 x 35,5
2.0 (vanagon) 39.3 x 33.0 sort of unsure where this transition takes place,
there are some real odd variations in square port head part numbers.
Regardless there are square port '79 heads with 37,5 intakes and then
somewhere they become 39,3 like a 1.7

Performance differences in using these depend on some other things as
well as the 2.0 heads have larker intake ports and exhaust ports (slightly),
the 914 2.0 head is of course rare, desireable, and bigger all though.  I saw
an idiot on *bay with a $400 reserve on a set USED, though they did look
OK, and they weren't even the rare desireable (to people who need em) '76
heads with the air intake injector ports.  The 1.8 head probably flows better
than a stock bus 2.0, probably not all that much better than a square port
2.0.  The 1.7 intake ports are noticeable smaller, not sure about 1.8s as I've
oddly never bought an 1800 in my life.  People bore them out for 105mm jugs,
put 48 x 42 valves in these things, 5 stud em, 6 stud em, whatever so you
can see just about anything given the cash.

OK now for current alternatives, Boston Bob, AVP, new AMC, new xxxx
(There is some other new T4 head out there I can't recall), NOS VW.  All I'm
going to say is I've seen more sets of all of the above than most of you, and
I've seen more fail than most of you.  I'm not going to spout stories of
mystical
diesel seats as any volume T4 builder is using a sensible seat likely better
than something or perhaps indeed something out of a diesel.  My opinions on
some of these rebuilders are previously noted, my opinions on Mark Stephens
were on record long before he went belley up, not many people took heed then
either.  If I see shit work I don't call it a rose just cause a bunch of
yocals on
the list get a warm fuzzy feeling about something.  If I had to have a set of
T4 heads done today what would I do.  West coast, send GOOD cores to
Rimco and have them do the seats (but you didn't mentions Rimco before!!!)
FAT uses Rimco, I've had Rimco do some special T4 stuff, perfect results,
enough said.  If they were truley that nice of cores and you have reason to
suspect they are low mileage just have them done local or do them yourself
without replacing the seats.  A true low buck option ($70 a head around me
from a good bug shop) and likely good for somewhere between 25-50k miles
at least.  And that might be all you got out of a $220 rebuild as well.  On
the
east coast, well I guess I'd go with Bob, but he is finicky (not unrightly)
and
frankly I've seen some junk out of his place as well but in the details not in
the seat installation, and it was one out of several of his heads I've
seen.  He
is also expensive, his shop is not that astoundingly impressive, his logic in
some things is bizzare, but his product seems solid.  And I'd still weigh, and
am in fact weighing if shipping to CA beats out his expense.  OK both of those
pretty much assumed good cores as Rimco is going to use yours, and Bob
will beat you roundly $$ wise if you don't have em.  Good cores getting tough
BTW in general.  I have about 15 T4 heads sitting about and none of them
either of those guys would consider rebuildable without big money.  These are
just random pulls off the last 10 engines I've taken apart or bought for $5
or $10
at shows.  The best of the cores I've already used in my '76, '81, '82, etc.
 Square port cores real tough, and I guess I do have some pretty fair 1.7s
just
I never think about them much.  So if your cores stink what to do.  I guess
AVP
either through Ron or through AVP depending on the coast you are on.  This
alternative will not be up to stock standards but will be better than GEX,
SIR,
Mofoco, whoever else out there is bold enough to be doing a T4 head.  The
glory
and perhaps the terror of AVP is that they will take nearly anything as a
core, and
yeah aluminum can be welded, but people got to still make a profit, skilled
labor
time is money, you figure what you will.  I've had better luck with AVP's
round
port heads FWIW than the square port.  Last on the list rounds out new AMC
spanish heads, great idea, don't last.  Be it truly that they use a better
alloy
more resistent to cracking but with a higher coefficient of expansion and
the same interference fit as German or whatever, who knows.  Do know this
a new AMC head can fail in as little as 10k miles on a '81 Westy driven in the
70mph range.  Might last a lot longer at 65, might go in 1000 miles at 80mph.
As Steve mentioned heat is the enemy.  If the original poster has indeed put
in 6 new heads in 10 years or whatever the quote was, either something else
is wrong like too high CR, lean running old injectors (buy new Autozone $35),
auto tranny (sorry volks they just don't cool on the downhill like a
stick), or just
driving plain to fast.  Whatever.  Fix the problem, take a Porsche approach
and
add an oil cooler, drive slower, figure it out.

And to the last and golden opportunity.  New German heads, like the set of
new 1.7 heads I got sitting in front of me with me wondering who to have take
out those pesky 33mm exhuast seats and install 35.5 seats.  They are still
available, they might be worth paying for.  Depends largely how long you are
REALLY going to keep you bus.  If you want to see stock life (which in even
a westy bay should approach 200k) you need to go with something made new
in der fatherland, this is perhaps the only time in my existence when I think
you need to shell out the real DM and and talking deutsche marks not dumb
methods.  Course now Euros I guess.  I don't know if anyone ever bothered
to get any of them from the guy selling them, whose name escapes me but
they were supposed to come in bare under $225 each.  I got my set off *bay
from a guy who bought them at a dealer in '82 so that doesn't count much, I
paid $380 for the set, I was tickled to death obviously.  I think
personally one
of the vendors should buy a crate of em and bring em in, have em cut to 2.0
barrels and sell em for $350 a pop.  Doesn't help the square port folk anyway
unless you do some creative exhaust work.

Anyway this concludes my ramblings on the manner, sorry to have gone on.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu




