From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 17 Sep 2001 13:05:37 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Yakima Trip report

Left Sat from Oly about 4:30,

really we meant to leave about noon, meaning 1 pm, but you know how Saturdays 
go, and this and that and go to Andrew's to get the camp stove etc,  Had 
thought of trying to caravan, but had throught it would involve effort to 
coordinate, glad I didn't try.

Heading S on I-5 took a Left (East) on hwy12 to pass over the Cascades.  It 
is a long uphill climb.  Took White Pass, where a friend smacked a elk with 
his bus in July.  Hmm.   Dropped into 3rd past Packwood, and just stayed at 
about 37mph all the way up to the top -pass is eleveation 4500 ft.  Really 
nice views- U shapped glacier dug valleys, vertical cliffs, lots of trees 
occasionall red dirt.    Weather has been really nice, bus stayed around 200 
F all the way.

went downhill sharpley past a couple lakes from dams, dropped to the naches 
River, with looked a great white water river for rafting/kayaking/canoes.    
The temperature went up we dropped in elevation.   Got into Yakima about 8:30 
or 9pm.  Found a grocery store and investigated the KOA, which seems lame, so 
went to camp at the park where the show was.

Show was nice and mellow.  I stayed in the shade as much as possible.  there 
were trees and green grass and a splendid time was had by all.  Saw nice old 
VWs.  There was one baja bug with reall cool leaf paintings on it in camo 
colour, like Ellen's dirt bike had.  Also a couple nice 67 Riviera campers, 
anyway they ere the same kit as the one I got last weekend with that long 
window, but in much nicer shape.  One had one 64K on it, had 28K miles when 
he bought it a couple years ago.    Took piccies.  Lots of nice samba buses 
with those silly skylights, they give you sunburn, guess some people like 
them though.

Left about 3:30, filled the tank before leaving Yakima, and heading out and 
uphill the bus warmed up quickly.  And much to the people behinds me's 
dismay, I decided to drive 55mph instead of 60, to ease the heat on the 
motor.  It was in the nineties the sign in Yakima said 97F, was that really 
right?  But with the safaris open and the mister bottle it was nice driving.  
Stopped along the Naches River about 30 or 40 miles from Yakima to let the 
bus sitt in the shade while we waded in the river- very nice.   I picked up 
some rocks.  Rocks are cool.  Engine ran cooler as we climbed up the pass, as 
it was cooler outside.  Over the pass a long downhill with a headwind that 
some times comes from the right and sometimes from the left.  Boo.  Then up 
and down for a while, through the valleys and hills. Some places had gorgeous 
views of Rainier (pointy, snow on top)  Went up a side road to take a look at 
Mt St Helens.  No top to have snow on.  It looked like a big grey dusty hot 
crater. 

used passing lanes to let faster cars go by.   sometime sthey didn't 
evidently some were happy with the bus speed and/or liked watching an old 
bus.  One was a white westy vanagon.  Couple people didn't want me to get 
back on the road when the passing lane ended in spite of (because of?) my 
amber turn signal, so I honked my 6V horn firmly and took the lane I wanted.  
They did not have to go into oncoming traffic.  They are not running me off 
the road,  as if!  Some idiots do not know the rules of the road, and also 
cannot read the freakin NON HIPPY BUS sticker.   Unfortunately, knowing when 
to pass safely is a good skill when in mountains/ 2 lane country roads.  
Don't worry, no one was hurt, only their egos were bruised.   I was singing, 

I may be slow, but baby, I am ahead of you.  
you don't like it, but there's nothing you can do.

I may be slow, but I am ahead of you,
You don't know how to pass, so I guess you'll go slow too.

etc

Got to the cheap gas at I-5 and hwy 12, and figured as it had been about 150 
miles should fill it up.  Guy in the modern car thing next to the bus was 
asked what kind of gas milage the old bus got, and just then the gas thing 
clicked off- it only took 3.85 gallons.  under $6.  Best milage that bus ever 
gave me actually.    Hot days, lower rpms (around 2800) do it I guess.

Got back to Oly about 7:30.   .Nice weekend.  The Apple Valley VW Club always 
have a nice show. 

a side note, please ...

Do you really need to jump down someone's throat when he writes a trip 
report?   Get a bit of perspective.   Emotions are high, people are upset 
from the terrorism attacks,  but come on, think twice.  

Anyhow,   I thought this was a list about old box shaped VWs.   Have you 
hugged your VW today?  How was Jerome?

Clara


In a message dated 9/17/01 5:21:44 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
prosser(-at-)bellatlantic.net writes:

<< 
 
 <<Joel and the '64 Sundial
 (maybe naive peacenik who believes that only love can conquer hate)>>
 
 Forgive me, but the peaceniks are giving me hemorrhoids. What would you
 have us do, invite Osama Bin Laden over for tea and a big love fest?
