Date: Mon, 17 Sep 2001 14:20:21 -0700
From: "Wade's-Wagen's" <wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net>
To: "Vintage Bus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Jerome report, more 15window damage, pics (long)

(Pics at bottom)
You all may remember my friends 60 15 window getting hit in the rear a week
ago just after finishing it right? Well my Jerome trip centers around this
15window and thats where the trip begins. We showed up to his house around
11am in my 57sc and headed out with him in his 15w, tim and katie driving
their panel and 59sc. Everything was rolling smoothly until we got out into
the hills of the AZ desert on the i17 and started smelling 'somethin
burnin'. turned out it was jasons clutch, as he barely had any forward
movement in high RPM's. Regardless of what it was, we werent goin anywhere,
so tim called someone to bring up a towbar, somethin to tow the 15window
with, and parts. 'We'll just drop the engine at jerome and fix it'  was the
game plan. We waited, then waited some more and some more. Then we drove it
along the road a bit further till we got under the table mesa road bridge,
and waited even more. About 4 to 5 hours later the guy showed up but was
already towin somethin so he couldnt do it. Then a toyota 4x4 showed up, so
they just attached a tow strap to it and headed out, tired of waiting
around, sun goin down.
At Cortes junction, the toyota and the 15window kept goin straight while
everyone else pulled off to get food gas etc. It was about 8 miles just out
of Verde valley on the insane downhill curves when i spotted the 15window on
the side of the road, i was in lead,  rollin 70mph and tried my hardest to
brake. billowing smoke poured out, but i made the stop. Turned out they had
been comin down the 40%grade, when they turned the same corner and saw
traffic at a dead stop. The 15window tried to brake to keep the tightness of
the tow strap, but it was no use and before long, BAM.  he tried to swerve
to avoid hitting the toyota, but clipped the bus driver door, ripped the
deluxe trim off the front bumper, and wrapped the tow strap around the buses
beam which pulled on the tie rod and made the wheels face 2 different
directions. The saga was over and the sun quickly set which left us on an
outside curve in pitch black darkness with semi's goin by so fast that it
was trying to suck the paint of the buses. We waited another 3 hours for his
dad, who pulled a Ghia on a flatbed up to drop off and take the bus home. A
big F-U to all those Bay windows that hauled ass by without even flinching
on the brakes. Maybe the piles of burning flares that the highway trooper
kept bringin and lighting behind my singlecab werent obvious enough that we
needed help.
 We pulled into jerome around midnight, ah 11 hour drive to jerome. gotta
love it, considering it is normally 2 hours max.
I dont know how anyone is saying it was a mellow jerome, both nights until
at least 3 am campfires around me had radios blasting, ppl yelling and
cussing and partying, etc. There was some kind of invisible sound barrier
once you walked about halfway toward the ABC club/stage area. Worked exactly
the reverse once jerry got on the mic, couldnt hear a thing. I think it was
all the pop top late campers that parked all the way down the middle. Should
make it like that every year so that Ellis will show up. Lots of ppl that
were always at jerome didnt show, like everett, eric lucier, Jim ellis, greg
noble and others.
 My friend Ed fox managed to make it up in his bare metal DC which was his
first jerome and wont be his last. Turnout seemed to be a tad down, prolly
due to this weeks events, but it was a nice break not to be too crowded.  I
didnt bring extra batteries for my camera so of course it ran out, and i
didnt get pics of everything i wanted. There were a few swaps and i picked
up a near mint 6v horn and some other screw terminal stuff that had been
striped from a 57 truck.
After having such a rough week with his 15window, Jason had purchased raffle
tickets and was up at the raffle bus when the 6 numbers were read. For those
unfamiliar with jerome, jerry reads the first 2 numbers and everyone with
those #'s goes up and touches the bus. Jerry had read the 4th number and the
only one left standing there was jason. jerry read the 5th number, yes it
matched too. Then came the 6th number. no go. then someone ran from the
crowd with the winning ticket.......
Jason had bought 10$ worth of tickets. He had 2 dollars left, but thought
what the hell its my last 2$ i'll keep it just in case. Well Jason was 4
numbers away from winning. if he would have spent that 2 $ he would've won.
Ah well. Moral of the story? spend everything you have in your wallet or you
wont win! =)
Drive home was uneventful and we had another kick ass time at Jerome. My 57
sc performed flawlessly which was a nice change for once.
Heres pics of the damage to the 15window
http://dropgates.tripod.com/doordamage.jpg
And heres some pics of the jerome show
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/htmlscript/gallery.mv?search+Jerome%202001

Will have a few more pics of Jerome trucks up on my site later tonight
-Wade
VW trucks only http://dropgates.com


