From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 18 Sep 2001 14:57:59 EDT
To: psstotts(-at-)clnk.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] loud wiper motor

In a message dated 9/18/01 11:24:57 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
psstotts(-at-)clnk.com writes:

<< 
 Hope everyone's well. The wiper motor on my 63 DC is all of the sudden
 extremely loud. Is there anything in particular that I can look at to see
 what the problem is? The truck has been converted to 12v and so has the
 wiper motor.
  >>

In what way your motor was converted to 12V,  (voltage drop?  installed a 67 
motor?  other?)  Does it also go faster?   Voltage drops can wear out.   In 
any case the best thing is to remove it, and clean out the old grease and 
regrease it.  Each style of wiper motor (66-67, 65, 61-64, 3/55-60, 2/55 and 
earlier, 6V or 12V) is different in the particulars, but the idea is still 
the same.   The grease is in the side where you have to unscrew the cover 
plate/remove the arm to the wiper.  The area under the bail is the electric 
portion, where the windings and brushes are.  You can also bench test it 
before reinstalling, with a battery or a battery charger.  The gasket between 
motor and cover tends to rip when to remove the screwed on cover, but I have 
just put the pieces back in place when I put the cover back on- it is grease 
not thin oil in there.  Or you can make a new gasket out of a grocery sack or 
whatever if you are bored.

you generally need to remove any radio in the radio hole to remove the wiper 
motor.  Also undoing the right hand screw(s) holding the dash tray up makes 
it easier to remove the wiper motor, by pushing the tray down.  BD wiper 
motors are real easy to get to.

FWIW, the wiper motor in my 65 would only make a protesting noise when I got 
the bus.  Like a sick unhappy cow.  No movement even.   I cleaned it and 
regreased it, and it worked nice and smooth and quiet.

if you have a frame type (65 and on) in there, make sure the white plastic 
bushings are good- that the holes in them are circular not oval, to keep slop 
away.  also it is always nice to lube the moving parts in the linkage.  the 
pivots that go through the body should be free as well, so you can spin the 
inside part while holding the outer part.  lube there is good too.  If they 
are stuck heat them up with a torch and drop them in a bucket of water.    
get some new rubber seals for the wiper pivots if you dont alreasy have nice 
ones.
