Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2002 12:38:20 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Troy <troy(-at-)wicals.com>, Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Removing cat from exhaust system...


>Hello all,
>             Most know that I have a 78 Bay with a type IV engine.  Some
>may have noticed at EB that I have a Cali spec engine.  Meaning that I
>have a catalytic converter.  When I was in California, of course I had
>no option but to leave it on.  Now that I am in NC and emissions are not
>a problem, I was wondering if I would be able to remove the cat without
>causing any problems with the engine.  I am hoping that I may get a
>little more horse power from doing this.  Or, should I leave it on as
>this is how it the engine was meant to be used?  Thanks

You would not make any more power because the cat only changes the 
chemistry of the exhaust gasses. It does not require horsepower like an air 
injection/pollution pump.

The engine would only make more power if the catalytic converter was 
restrictive to the exhaust flow or if you could make more power because you 
could run the engine richer than you could with the cat in place. Over rich 
fuel systems can cause a cat to overheat and melt internally at highway 
speeds and thus block exhaust flow and reduce horsepower. Over rich systems 
also of course reduce your MPG too. Really over rich systems can dilute the 
engine oil.

It was explained to me that so many of the domestic 70's and 80's cars that 
you hear that sound like the have a huge air hose leaking when they take 
off hard is because they have damaged catalytic converters that have either 
partially melted or the honey comb interior of the cat has broken up and 
shifted blocking exhaust flow hugely increasing back pressure in the 
exhaust system.

If it was me I would leave it in place if your engine is running fine. If 
you are running an air pump for the pollution system and want to remove it 
then you would probably have to remove the catalytic converter unless you 
update the injection system to a more modern version to maintain the proper 
air/fuel mixture.

You could remove the cat and prove to yourself whether you make more power 
or not.

If you have an air pump and want to ditch it, could I have the drive system 
and the brackets for the cost of shipping?




Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


