Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2002 15:43:48 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Penetrol and MCM sound deadening

Volks,

I recently tried out two products mentioned on this list.

The first was Penetrol, which I found at Home Depot as advertised.  I 
bought it to coat the fiberglass highroof on my bus, which has decent paint 
that has gradually become not-so-decent due to the effects of sun, rain and 
age.  After a quick wash, application and rub-off per the instructions, the 
paint now has kind of a dull gloss look to it.  There were some residual 
streaks which I think were due to the fact that a little water got on the 
rag while I was wiping the penetrol off - next time I will make sure 
everything is completely dry before I start.  The top looks much better and 
I'm convinced that it is now protected from the elements.  Penetrol looks 
like very good stuff to me, and I would recommend it for anyone with a 
fiberglass top on their bus.

The second was sound deadening material from MCM Electronics 
(www.mcmelectronics.com).  I ordered two sheets at $7 each (each sheet is 
about 28x34 inches or about 7 square feet).  With shipping it came to $22 
for about 14 square feet or about $1.50 per square foot.  Would probably be 
less shipping per foot if I ordered a larger quantity.  That's compared to 
$21.50 for 6 square feet of Q-pads or about $3.50 per square foot.  I 
looked at the two side by side and have some observations.  They are both a 
dark colored material with adhesive and blue plastic on one side.  At first 
glance they look identical but I did notice a few differences.  The Q-pads 
look like they might be incrementally thicker.  The Q-pads also have an 
additional layer on the non-adhesive side which looks to be made up of a 
thin, plastic mesh-like material.  I think it was intended as a sheild to 
prevent carpet or whatever else from sticking to the tar-like substance of 
the sound deadener.  The final difference is the deadener itself - the 
Q-pad deadener is black, while the MCM deadener is more of a dark-brown, 
chocolately color.  I left a sheet of the MCM stuff in my bus yesterday 
(full sun, 87 degrees ambient) and it did not make the bus stink like 
tar.  It did soften up about the same as the Q-pad so functionally they 
appear to be about identical.  Definately much better than the crap they 
are selling at cheapsounddeadener.com or whatever that web site was.  In 
any case, this stuff is good enough for less than half the price of Q-pads 
that I think I'm going to use a lot of it in my bus.

-David

