From: "Britt Grannis" <hillcountry(-at-)caltel.com>
To: "Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>,
Date: Wed, 24 Apr 2002 15:56:27 -0700
Subject: Roadcow Trip report to Everybus

Just a note,
This is a trip report so if you don't like that sort of thing please use
your delete key now.

 I'll start with the day before I left valley Springs, Ca. for the journey
to North Carolina and Everybus. I still had to get my 86 Vanagon seat
mounted,my 19" muffler mounted in the space where a 15" muffler once
resided, and weld up the motor mount and skid plate on the Toyota engine,
and yes pack.My son had brought home the large muffler saying" that's all
they had" so I had to make it work by cutting a corner off of the skid
plate, good thing I looked at it since it had cracks in it from both sides
going about 3/4ths the way across. My buddy was called into work with his
MIG welder and in no time I was able to get the muffler and skid plate back
on the bus. The muffler is 1/8" from hitting the oil pan and about 1/2" from
the left rear tire but hey it works. I was very lucky that my 86 Vanagon
seat just slide onto Roadcow's existing seat outer rails after I knocked the
inner rails down with a hammer. That seat is absolutely wonderful to sit in
with it's fold down armrests, I had everybody who came by sit in my new
seat, I was so proud.
  I loaded up the bus with all I thought I'd need as well as a few parts I
was delivering back east and headed out about 10:00 pm on Sunday evening
with a 79 Westy in tow. I got about 45 miles from home when some
godawfulracket starts emanating from the back of the bus. I pull over
expecting to see my new weld job on the muffler broken but not so easy, the
19mm bolt plugging my smog hole in the head has blown out. I decided to try
to put a spark plug ( all I had at the time) wrapped with copper wire into
the hot hole in an attempt to quiet the beast down. This worked for about 5
miles and promptly blew out. I figured it wouldn't hurt anything so I
continued on. About 10 miles up the road I see a 66 15 window Splitty along
side of the road with the engine up so I swing a U turn and go offer any
help. The guy lives 2 blocks from where he's broke down with a blown tranny
so I say good by and resume my attempt to drag this heavy Westy over the
Sierras in the dead of night so as not to hold too many people up.
 I made it to Carson city, Nevada and decided that I'd try 1 more time to
plug the hole in the exhaust manifold with a 3/4" bolt I got at a hardware
shop which was just a bit too small but with some copper wire I stripped out
of an extension cord it just might work. I got the bolt in place and
actually got a wrench on it ant it seemed to tighten up. The moment of truth
came when I started the bus and heavenly blissful quiet emerged from the
rear of roadcow once again. This fix lasted 400 miles across Nevada and just
into Utah where it blew out again. I fought heavy head and cross winds and
snow across Nevada and could only manage 55 or 60 mph most of the way. I
stopped to sleep in Winnemucca, Nevada at the Flying J Truck stop and slept
for 4 hours. I fueled up when I awoke and pulled the curtains off of their
Velcro mounts and checked the oil and WooHoo no oil usage! This was great as
the previous Toyota engine used a quart every tank ( I knew the engine was
tired when I bought Roadcow). I proceeded toward EB in a steady gait of
about 60 mph until I got into SLC, Utah where it was really snowing bad so I
decided to take a nap and see if the wind died down in a few hours.I got up
and it had indeed stopped blowing the galeforce winds but was snowing pretty
hard so I decided to make a run for the other side of SLC and try and get
past the mountains before the snow got too bad. I started trudging up the
hills east of SLC in 3rd and sometimes 2nd gear all the while in the snow,
I'm very afraid of driving in the snow much less towing in the stuff. I made
it to the Wy, border and stopped for gas at a truck stop and asked if the
roads were any better going east and was told when it was snowing as hard as
it was there that the road ( I-80) was usually closed a few miles up the
road.I decided that I'd trudge on ( big mistake) when all of a sudden those
road signs which state " caution bridges may be icy before road freezes"
really meant something. I was coming down this hill into a long sweeping
uphill turn to the right with a bridge at the bottom.As I crossed the bridge
at 55 mph I feel Roadcow slide about 4' to the outside of my lane! I was
petrified and saw visions of 2 busses jackknifed and plowing off of the road
and crashing into a tangled heap! I slowed way down going up the hill (
20mph in 2nd gear) and saw tracks in the snow covered road that veered left,
then right across 3 lanes then off of the road but saw no car so I guess
they just got out and put it in 4WD and away they went. Just about 1 mile up
the hill I started to loose traction going up the hill and let off of the
gas but every time I tried to accelerate or just keep my pace up the hill I
would break the tires loose at will. I pulled over to the shoulder and tried
to just hold the busses with the brakes but the busses started sliding
backwards and jackknifing! I decided I'd try to spin the tires in an attempt
to"burn " through the ice and get some traction which worked as long as I
kept the revs at 3K or so> I would sit for about 20 seconds spinning the
tires and then get some traction for about 21 yard and have to repeat the
process. It took about 40 minutes for me to get up to the top of the hill or
about 1 mile.I looked for a place to get out of the way and found a wide
spot in the road and called it a night not knowing what I'd wake up to in
the morning but very glad to be alive.
To be continued.
Britt

Hillcountry Water Treatment

