From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: <Christopher.M.Munson(-at-)us.mwhglobal.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 2004 09:17:53 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Exhaust System - Oregon Emission Laws

Emissions in Oregon are simple if you don't live in the Portland
metro area.  Portland area requires that you pass the Dept. of
Environmental Quality, a.k.a  DEQ.

The DEQ used to have a grandfather law where anything over 20 years
old was grandfathered and didn't have to pass DEQ.  I guess somebody
didn't like that, because they suspended it.  They drew a line in
the sand, more or less, and now say that if you are in Portland area
and have a vehicle from 75 or earlier, you don't have to have it
tested.

This bummed me out since I drive a 76 bus.  So, I went about making
sure that everything was within spec and happily showed up with my
bus and paperwork and money in hand for the testing.  The line was
really long.  I pulled up to the gate and the guys jaw dropped open.
"You're not really going to test that?  are you?? ".  I just replied
that it was the law and I wanted to make sure that I had all my
paperwork straight.  So he waved me through and I got to bypass all
of the long lines of later cars.  All those folks had been waiting
much longer than me, but I got to go by them because the test for a
76 anything isn't nearly as rigorous.  I pulled right up to a bay
that was empty and waited for a tech.

This tech walks up to the bus and asks me what kind of car it is.
I'm wondering if this person has lived on the planet earth long at
this point.  Willing to give her the benefit of the doubt I tell the
tech that it is a 76 bus.  Her next question had my jaw falling
open.  " Yes, but what make? who made it?"......    W    H     A
T??????

 I politely gave her the info on the car.  I couldn't believe it.
Turns out that she had been working there for 6 months and had never
tested a VW bus before.  Evidentally, she grew up in a hole
somewhere because she didn't know what a VW Bus was.  Then came the
best part,...  "Where is the radiator?".  LMAO!

I explained that it didn't have one.  She got really really
confused.  I thought that in order to test cars, you actually had to
know some small thing about them, especially if you are working in
the bay that the older cars get funneled through.  Evidentally I
thought wrong.  She was very frustrated.  I explained to her what an
air cooled engine was, and also educated her on other cars from
various manufacturers that would more than likely have them.

What was really weird about this was that this was in Portland OR.
I see buses everyday driving around all over the place.  Not just
buses either, all kinds of beetles and things and carmen ghia's too.
This State has a reputation for having a tree huggin, sandle
wearing, granola crunchin population anyway.  Not that everybody is
that way, but there are enough folks that fit into that description
that I cannot imagine a vehicle techie not having a clue about any
of this.

Turned out that there was a guy 4 bays down that owned a beetle in
high school.  Thank God.  He comes over and asks her what the
trouble was.  She says that the vehicle may not pass because it
didn't have a radiator.  I almost climbed out of the car at this
point.  He laughed at her so that I wouldn't have to and then
explained to her how to wand the bus exhaust to get a reading on an
air cooled engine.  After that he came over and spoke to me.  He
told me that nobody ever takes the buses into DEQ.  That while he
understood that it was the law to do so, he believed that most of
the buses on the road either predated the law and didn't have to
test, or filed their home address in a town outside of the Portland
Metro area, so that they didn't have to have their emissions tested.

5 retestings later they approved me.  At the time of the tests I
didn't have a bus exhaust setup.  The P.O. had put a beetle exhaust
header on there and a beetle muffler as well.  Definately not
correct.  Obviously not correct.  But they passed it anyway.  I
talked with the supervisor and he confirmed what I had been told
that they almost never saw them.  I guess other bus drivers in
Portland are in stealth mode if they are driving 76 or later.

Bottom Line:  I would be very surprised if they dinged you for not
having a cat.  If you ask the DMV they will tell you to fix it
right, but if you go to the DEQ, they probably wont even notice.
Give it a shot first.  You don't have to pay them anything if you
don't pass DEQ.  You will if you do.  Or you could just live outside
of the various Portland related counties and not have to worry about
any of it.

Let me know if you need me to get any info for you.
Happy Bussing and welcome to Oregon

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
