From: "Andy" <airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <kermarbah(-at-)comcast.net>
Cc: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 2004 22:30:10 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Why I drive a bus/Useful load question

Markus,
The load in a moving vehicle affects many of its systems. Suspension is the
most obvious, but engine and braking ability are also important. I am
assuming you have the proper tires installed; most often the load rating and
inflation values are overlooked (ask me how I know, a really big load of
glossy paper brochures in a '50 Chevy P.U. with passenger car tires. Live
and learn). Given that you are within spec, how you drive is most important.
Lots of stopping distance, low speeds, and focus on the job at hand will get
you to your destination.
Guesses at safe limits as time passes? As long as everything has been
properly maintained and there are no structural defects, spring compression
(can I call it that on a torsion spring?) is your only real factor. This can
be compensated for by resetting the spring plate on the torsion spring. Some
believe that the springs may work harden and  possibly break. Given that
VW's have multi leaf (again, I have a problem describing a torsion spring in
such terms) springs, catastrophic failure is unlikely, but a capacity load
increases those odds.
I would not hesitate to load a VW bus, properly maintained, to its rated
capacity regardless of age.

----- Original Message ----- 
From: <kermarbah(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Wednesday, April 28, 2004 6:19 AM
Subject: [T2] Why I drive a bus/Useful load question


> How does 35+ years age affect the load carrying capacity of a Bus?  I
hauled about 1/2 cubuic yard of topsoil, which I estimated at about
1300-1400 lbs (very rough numbers: 1/2 of 27 cu ft at around 100 lb/cu ft).
I had all the seats out and my Bus is a '68 7-passenger model.  My Bus
looked like it was sitting about 3-4 inches lower than empty, and it
certainly drove like it was quite heavy, but it was not bottoming out or
having any other driveability issues.  From my research, the original rating
of the vehicle was about 2000 lbs useful load, so I felt reasonably safe
that I didn't overload it.  Does anyone out there have more information on
how the suspension (I'm pretty sure mine is the original; front beam has no
major rust or other problems I can detect) deteriorates over time and maybe
some guesses at safe limits as time passes?
