Cc: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Wed, 28 Apr 2004 23:20:50 -0700
To: "Jamey Charlet" <prolabor(-at-)bellsouth.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Why drive a bus?

On Apr 27, 2004, at 9:13 PM, Jamey Charlet wrote:

> Rather than using my wheels for negative, cliche, "fun" stickers, I 
> use my
> Westy as a daily driver mini-van that I can fix.
> As a single dad, I realized that the kids were outgrowing the Beetle 
> --- and I
> entered Type 2 world!

Sounds vaguely like the reason my dad bought a (brand new) Bus when I 
was a kid .. the Beetle was just too darned small!

Why do I drive a Bus?  Lots of reasons:

- I have loved VWs ever since I can remember.  I guess this is due to 
all the pleasant memories I have from my childhood of the VWs my dad 
owned.  My most vivid childhood VW memory is that of seeing Star Wars 
at a drive-in theater sitting on a stool between the two front seats of 
my dad's Bus.  There were a few bad moments, of course... like dad 
getting a speeding ticket while driving the Beetle (yah, I guess you 
really can speed in one of those :-) while I tried to hide from the cop 
in the back seat, and hearing a particularly convincing "if you don't 
knock it off, I'm going to pull this car over and drop you off right 
here!" threat while misbehaving on a family summer vacation in the Bus. 
  But the good outweigh the bad ... I loved helping my dad wash those 
cars.

- I drove VWs in high school ('72 Super Beetle and '84 Jetta) and 
university (that same '84 Jetta).  The Super Beetle was my first 
restoration project (what a learning experience that was).  The Jetta 
had over 300,000 miles on it when it finally croaked (it was high 
mileage when I bought it, and it went on many a Phish tour and probably 
a few too many camping and ski trips where it was driven like a 4x4).

- I love the sound the air-cooled VW engine makes!

- The Westfalia campers have a lot of "cool factor".  Oh, they're great 
for camping, too!

- I love that they're simple to work on, and quite reliable when 
maintained properly.

- I love the ear-to-ear grin that friends get when they ride in my Bus!

- I love the smile it puts on a total stranger's face when they see my 
Bus parked or driving down the street.  Even with as many as you see in 
San Francisco, people still stop to peer in the windows of a parked VW 
camper.  I guess they have universal appeal.

- The Bus (especially a camper) is the ultimate road trip vehicle.

- I love waving to other Bus drivers as we pass each other on the 
highway.

- And despite the fact that I discovered this after I purchased my Bus 
(it wasn't a reason for buying my Bus, but will encourage me to have 
one as long as I am able), I love the fact that it makes me part of 
such a friendly little community as we have right here.  Hip hip hooray 
for the fine folks on type2(-at-)!

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
