From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "Michael Elliott" <j.michael.elliott(-at-)adelphia.net>,
Date: Thu, 29 Apr 2004 11:47:13 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] Trouble unlatching sliding door

I would start by isolating whether it is the forward latch or the
back latch that is requiring all of this force to be applied in
order to release.

If it was me... I would take the panel off of the sliding door in
the interior.  Either myself or somebody I know would sit inside and
watch the back and forward latch mechanisms while someone slowly
applied force to the outside door handle.  There is a significant
chance that the rear latch needs to be adjusted to release in proper
time with the forward one.  OR,....  one of the cast metal parts
inside the forward or rear latch may have cracked.  Cast metal is
notorious for this.  It can get a stress fracture that would not be
visible to you unless that part was under pressure.  When you apply
all of this force to the handle, does it feel like there is a spongy
kind of resistance?  Does it feel like metal dragging on metal
before it releases?  A good place to start may just be to pull the
forward and rear latches off of the door and clean and lube them
thoroughly.  The reassembly will more or less demand that you time
the latches to cooperate with one another.  Remember that in order
for the forward latch to release properly, the rear latch on that
door will have had to have already released and sprung the rear of
the door away from the vehicle so that it can slide on its middle
track.  Hope this helps,...  it's been about 5 years since I
disassembled and reassembled my sliding door.

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
> The Wonderbus's sliding door is getting darn hard to open
> from the
> outside, and effectively impossible to open from the
> inside. A lot of
> force needs to be applied to turn the lever far enough to
> get the latch
> to unlatch.  Once unlatched, it slides fore and aft just fine.
>
> Seeking hints on how to club this problem into submission quickly.
>
> ---
> Rocket J Squirrel
> 71 Type 2 -- The Wonderbus
