From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 14 Oct 2003 11:15:51 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Octobugfest - Puyallup, Wa..  have you checked your tires

got up before dawn Sunday for the show.  Well, that's not that early these 
days, but I'm not enjoying the transition from the crazy hot summer we had.   
pouring down rain in the dark, water dripping under the safari windows.  sigh,  
time to park the 61 for the winter, really. (there's another story there, I'm 
swapping some bits around on the 65). 

 Anyway, bus just purred right along regardless of the weather.  Got to 
Puyallup, and saw the usual crowd of VWers, and some new ones.   It was a real nice 
show this time.  surprisingly large turnout considering the weather.  

End of the day packed up the bus, to go home.   Getting on the freeway from 
Puyallup  it goes up this steep hill.  anyway, just pulling up that accerating 
into 3rd the bus feels really odd, shifty.  Stop on the breakdown lane, and 
get out and walk around the bus.  It's got a low tire on the rear right.     
Drove slowly to the next exit, which had a sign for a gas station, actually found 
the gas station, which was hiding.   That tire had dropped to 20psi!, and the 
other 3 were on the low side as well.   So added air as needed.  come to 
think of it, last time I checked them it was probably in the 80 F range.    now 
it's in the 50s or low 60s.   Well, that sorted out the bus feeling shifty, and 
got home without incident.   

Rolling up a terry shop towel and tying a rubber band around it you can hook 
the rubber band over the safari latch towards the middle and it holds the 
towel in place to catch drips, but still the defogger vent is clear..

Duct tape over the fresh air inlet vent cut down on drafts and that flap flap 
flap-p-p-p-ping noise  it makes when the vent is shut.   There is an extra 
seal missing, or gap in this bus, so when I put my hand up above in front I feel 
the air blowing through, this to the drivers side of the air vent (while in 
motion)  like above the sunvisor, blowing from the front.  The duct tape  made 
it quieter and less drafty.

feel free to disapprove of my hokey fixes, and you are welcome to fix the air 
vent leak properly.  :)
