From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 14 Oct 2003 20:13:30 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: new motor...going over to the dark side

Just put my new motor in the 65 yesterday.   Not driven it yet, still a few 
things to hook up.   But after intending to for ages and being sidetracked by 
this that and the other, I assembled the 1679 elcheapo motor.   Cheap as I got 
it w/10K miles on it after it was in a fire (bug burned up) and I had to strip 
it down and clean the stuff out of the heads that kept it from turning over, 
then pulled the case apart as the fuel pump base had done something wierd.  
Anyway, it was a NEW case, and everything is standard grind, crank etc, 
beautiful heater boxes.   Machine in ps and cs, so the cylinder wall' are thicker than 
a 1600, sp heads, stock muffler, full flow filter.    painted all the tin and 
put it together with doghouse and thermostat and set up for a 2" pre heat 
hose, to match the modified air cleaner, which is 1500 hangs on the right style 
with 2" pipe from a later aircleaner brazed on it.  You need all the preheat 
you can get around here.  Hard to hand turn the engine round by hand!!! Ground 
started it  Thursday, let run 20mins at ~2K rpms, afterwards was easier to turn 
by hand, still got good compression (my guage is broken I don't know #s)

65 westy has the 3.88 r/p w/ 1.26 RGBs and 195 75 14 LT tires, and feels a 
bit underpowered with the 1600 in there.  Well, the new motor is installed, and 
starts up nicely.   So I gotta hook a few more things up (oil temp, acc cable, 
heater connections, attach filter to bus, bumper, adjust clutch) and then it 
gets a test drive.  I swapped the new generator over from the old motor, and 
changed it back to the regular size pulley from the small 12V one, as it would 
run too cool in the winter.   Oil pressure was ~60 psi on startup.  

I'm hoping this will restore pep to the bus.

after that, 65 bus will get a rebuildt steering box, then the 61 gets parked 
for the winter, and I'll drive the toasty heat, few drafts, insulated westy in 
the rain.

then I can get the truck going. turn the old motor from the westy to 6V, put 
it in the truck,  fix brakes, sand & primer the nose, paint the bed with 
roofing tar and screw a piece of plywood on there, and have a ratty junk hauler.

  so many buses, so little time.
