Date: Fri, 17 Oct 2003 10:38:17 -0400
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, dim1(-at-)comcast.net
Subject: Re: [VB] my new motor - pics

yes, the machine in 88s, so both the case and the heads are machined.  

SP heads.  And I had cleaned out the casting flashing for improved air flow.

yes, a 009, which I've had no problems with.  I have a 010 somewhere, but maybe I'll look later.  I was discussing this issue with someone the other day, how some folks are anti 009.   we decided that since the 009s are easily available, and so are the parts, and they work, what's the big deal?  we don't all have the same favorite beer or oil, either.

it has the 30pict carb I took off my 61 bus.  Some people have suggested I get dual carbs, but I want the simple bullet proof system.   I really don't mess with this bus that much mechanically, not for years, and I want it to be really simple maintenance, none of this balancing dual carbs every month business.  I'd rather spend my futzing with bus time making stretchy strings for the bottom of the curtains, and installing them.

only driven 8 miles so far, but it seems okay. a bit perkier than before.  except I need to fully hook the heat up.  The heater box to body tube connections need duct taping, and Only one box is currently hooked up as one side heater cable is broken and I need to find the adaptor piece of wire (what? install new cable!!! ha!!! )  I figure if I need to mess with the carb or jetting or distributor I can do that after all is installed if I feel like it.   I might try different carbs/jettings, but first I'll just get it going and heat working and steering tighter. (I'll be swapping out for a rebuildt steering box soon. )   

I'll let you all know how it goes when I've driven it a bit more.   

oh, another option for engine compartment lights is power it off your taillights.  then even if forget to turn them off they'll only be on with the taillights (you only need them at night anyway).  Or get the on off switch from a bug door jamb, except I'd not want it always on w/ door open, cause what if you work on it during the day, or leave the hatch open overnight?  oh, but if there is a switch as well you can turn it off.

In a message dated 10/16/2003 9:47:50 PM Eastern Daylight Time, tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net writes:

> Clara,
> 
> You're running 88 P&C's?
> 
> Do you have single port or DP heads?
> And what carb are you running?
> 
> Just curious as I was thinking about doing a 1679 but 
> wasn't sure that 
> SP heads and a 28 PICT would be optimal for it.
> 
> Please let me know how it performs/runs...
> (gas mileage, etc.)
>
.............................
phil wrote:
Very sanitary except I think I see a 009 which I thought was a no-no for a bus.... I've delayed the engine rebuild for my 70 bus which I've owned since new ...currently working on the engine in the attached picture which has a nasty backfire through the carburetor.....any idea what causes this ..at the moment I am too tired to research it......

Phil
.............................

Hey Phil,
I'd check you carb adjustment and points and timing.   009 should be about 7.5 or 9 degrees BTDC at idle, and check with a strobe light, the mark should move to the left when you rev it up, moving to the left is advancing. (this is not a political staement) Heck, just give it a tune up and adjust stuff.   what carb do you have?
