Date: Mon, 20 Oct 2003 23:51:04 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Electrical Problem

>From: "Walk-Thru KO" <wko(-at-)iname.com>
>Date: Mon, 20 Oct 2003 06:06:47 -0500
>
>I have an electrical problem, can anybody offer any remedies.

What year and model of Bus is it?

>These are the symptons: When I switch on the ignition I get the gas gauge
>lighted up, everythig elsae works normal; [...]

I'd vote for a short or an improper connection at 1) your gas gauge or
2) on the back of the speedometer.  The simplest thing to try is to
unplug all three wires at the gas gauge (brown from sender, black from
ignition, gray/red from headlight switch).  Don't let them touch one
another or the body of the Bus.  Try it again.  If this clears up your
problem, take the gas gauge out of the dash so you can be sure you get
the wires hooked back up right.  If it still screws up with known correct
connections to the gas gauge, then you probably need a new gas gauge.
If unplugging the wires at the gas gauge doesn't help, the problem is
elsewhere.

The wiring on the back of the speedometer is more interesting but you
can do it.  The idea is the same but the work is harder.  Disconnect the
battery negative cable, then unplug all the wires on the back of the
speedometer.  Don't let any of them touch each other or the body of the
Bus.  Hook the battery back up and try it.  If this clears up your
problem, take the speedometer out of the dash so you can be sure you get
the wires hooked back up right.  If it still screws up with known correct
connections to the speedometer, then you probably need a new speedometer.
If unplugging the wires at the speedometer doesn't help, the problem is
elsewhere.

Get the color wiring diagram for your Bus at http://vintagebus.com/wiring
to know which wires go where.

>the drivers side turn signal works fine but the pass side turn signal
>flashes very slowly.

This is probably unrelated to the lighting/ignition problem above.  The
first thing is to check that all the bulbs on the outside of the car are
there and working well.  Adding ground wires to the outside lights,
especially the rear ones, may help this problem.  After that, the problem
could be in the turn signal switch, turn signal flasher, or wiring... to
be more specific I need to know what year Bus you have.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
