Date: Sun, 7 Sep 2003 19:42:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: old volks of az <type2vwparts(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: jdd <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Paintin' me bus

  I feel your pain on that painting. When I did my 60 DD, I was on a mission to build the whole bus in 6 weeks. Well I did it , body and paint , lost 18 lbs in the process. Did this 5 years ago and the paint has gone to sh#t (OMNI by PPG, will never use again)
  I had my 60 DC done at a shop as I did not have the time myself and really want to get this bus done. I still have a couple months of work putting it back together, and I could have never done a job as good as this.
http://www.kustomcoachwerks.com/current/cab/double6.htm
 
  I am getting ready to paint my 60 SC (once my new garage is finished) which will be a project in it's self and can't wait to get behind the paint gun again. All original Dove Blu
 
ronnie  on a mission to get my buses done before I am to old  and die
 
ps. let us see some pics!

jdd <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca> wrote:
So .... it seems like I've been working on the upper half of my 60 for the
whole summer - d*mn.

I spent forever working on my roof. I had to fix the repair some idiots did
in Winnipeg a few years ago. So with the help of a 17" sanding block and load
of filling and blocking it looks awesome. Then I epoxy primed a couple of
times and shot high build a couple of times and blocked and sanded some more
then ... I sanded through the highbuild and through the epoxy. So ... I shot
epoxy a couple more times and more high build and more sanding ... and every
looked ... very nice.

Then ... I shot paint. Two coats of urethane - runs everywhere - on the nose
there was ah huge mother of a run .. about a 1' wide sage with maybe ... 10
runs coming from it - I was suicidal - plus there was about 10 other major
runs ...

So, I sanded em all out and it worked very well. There were a couple of then
spots so I planned on shooting paint again. Did that today - whoooo hooooo I
have one tiny run that is in a very easy place to fix. Damn this looks good.
Even the door jambs look excellent - whoooo hooooo.


jdd 60 std, 78 westy


ronnie Old Volks of AZ 
www.type2parts.com
