From: "Dewayne \"Duck\" Moore" <duckyman(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "Sean Dorman" <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>, "Vintage Bus List"
Date: Mon, 8 Sep 2003 16:10:33 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] '65 Wiper Motor

FWIW...
  Thomas Ainsley had posts in May of 2002 covering this conversion...
I conversed with him and did the swap on my '65 motor...   it works!
(the motor now resides in Norbert, my '58 bus)
   Here is the group of posts:
--------------------
I set about re-greasing the wiper motor in the single cab today and after
cleaning the motor I noticed that the output gear bushings were wallered
out.  I dug through the stash and found another '65 wiper motor and set
about re-greasing it.  I finished up and reinstalled the motor in the bus
and it ran well and somewhat quieter too:)  Skip ahead to 10:00 PM and
boredom so I head out into the garage to fiddle with the old wiper motor and
see what could be done to convert it to 12 volts.  So I dig through the
stash some more and pull out a pile of wiper motors, find one from a '67
Beetle and take it apart.  First thing I do is compare the designs which are
close enough.  Next I compared the armatures and the '67 beetle one is ever
so slightly longer plus the field has one more plate than the '65.  I tried
the '67 armature in the '65 motor and it fit.  Replacing the brush plate I
noticed the tightness that was expected.  I test ran the motor and it didn't
want to turn which was also expected.  Next test was to swap the field,
armature and brush plate (sans one wire for speed 2) from the '67 motor to
the '65 motor.  Everything fit well and it ran fine on the test bench so
tomorrow I will swap these parts over to the motor that is in place and see
what happens.  Hopefully I will be voltage drop free tomorrow:)

Thomas

The 6 to 12 volt modification of my '65 wiper motor was a success:)  I am
very happy to say that the single cab is now voltage drop free!!!  I don't
know why someone didn't cover this before since it is so easy and the only
downside is that you have to cannibalize the beetle motor to get the
necessary parts:(  Oh well too bad for the beetle people;)  As a side
benefit now that the motor is fed 12 volts even my intermittent wipe mod
works as designed.

Thomas

Hey no problem.  It should work great for you.  When you have the armature
out it will be a good time to clean the copper pads where the brushes make
contact.  I used a model railroad track eraser which has some pumice in it
and then cleaned the grooves between the copper pads to make sure there
wasn't any possible conductance between them.  One thing I noticed on the
beetle brush plate is that once it has been removed from the motor the
brushes and springs can pop out.  I spent a few minutes trying to get them
back in before finding a better way.  This isn't a problem as all you need
to do is set the springs aside and replace the brushes into their guides.
Then once the plate is re-mounted you can carefully pry open the back end of
the brush guides to insert the spring from the back and then closed them up
again.  Another thing I did was to cut the speed 2" wire from the brush
plate and remove it's spring and brush too.  No reason to have the extra
friction and carbon buildup.

Thomas
------------------
Dewayne "Duck" Moore
1958 VW Camper Bus-- "Norbert"
Oklahoma Buskatier
duckyman(-at-)sbcglobal.net
http://www.duckyman.com
 "The Statue of Liberty is no longer saying   'Give me
your poor, your  tired, your huddled masses.' She's got
a baseball bat and she's yelling, 'You want a piece of me?
 Robin Williams
