From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: incynr8 <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>, 'Cal Grant' <cjay(-at-)well.com>, 
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 10 Sep 2003 08:21:33 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] door seals

  All aftermarket door seals come longer then needed and have to be cut. WCM
add approx 2 inches on there seals and WW are pretty close to the correct
length, except they only come in one profile and there should be 2 to 4
different profiles depending on the year.
  WCM come in the 67 bus profiles (4 total). When questioned on this Lorenzo
stated that their seals were copied from original (NOS) back then they were
still available from the dealer and that is what the dealer would have used
in a door seal replacement in the early 70's.
  There is an overlap of the post seals at the beltline. I have seen these
cut (OG seals) 2 different ways at the belt line. 1 way was with the
connecting points (belt line) cut at 45 degree's with the upper seal over
lapping the lower seal. The other way I have seen it is with the overlap
notched square with the pieces fitting together.
  I have not found that in the last 6 or 7 years of seal shrinking (either
WCM or WW) so I wouldn't be to concerned on them shrinking up on you to
much. I always put the 2 post seals in first and then the seal that goes up
and over the door. That way I can trim the rear most first and cut the over
lap correctly on the front post. The bottom seal I install last with a
little crush to get it to press against the 2 post seal nice and tight.
  Depending on what seals you are using, they might require some trimming in
the thickness to get the doors to shut properly or even some shimming (WW
front door post seal) to seal properly.
  On the WW front post seal, you will need to shim approx. 1/8 to 1/4 inch
to get it to seal correctly. This can be accomplished by putting a thick
bead of black silicon and pressing the seal in to the correct height.
  
  Ronnie

ps. On another note, one of my importers and I have been working on making
CORRECT door seals for each year change so you will get the correct profiles
for your year of bus
Again these seals are being copied for OG seals which I have collected over
the years and have received from people that knew what I am trying to do. We
are also working on cargo door seals with the correct cut outs/indentations
like OG ones

-----Original Message-----
From: incynr8 [mailto:incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org]
Sent: Wednesday, September 10, 2003 7:43 AM
To: 'Cal Grant'; 'Wayne Carlisle'
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] door seals


Isn't there an area of overlap by the rear edge of the door near the
beltline? Perhaps the cause of seemingly extra length, or is this in
addition to that?
AL

...



There's no secret; when you've got them scrunched up fairly well, and
they're still long, then cut them to length. That's my policy, and it's
worked well. Others may have different suggestions...

cal


On Tue, 9 Sep 2003, Wayne Carlisle wrote:

> Howdy,
> I am putting in new seals on my doors, cargo doors, and engine lid,
> and the seals all seem an inch or two too long. I figured I shouldn't
> cut them so I searched the archives and read you have to scrunch them
> up a little because they shrink later, which makes sense,  but I just
> can't seem to squeeze them together enough to fit them in at their
> present length. Is there some secret to this?
