Date: Tue, 4 May 2004 08:02:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: "James G. Beyer" <beyerj(-at-)frontiernet.net>, Briandliz
Subject: Ohio 4th Annual Buses Bands Brews event update!!- Very long &

Howdy Y'all,
It is now only 2.5 weeks away from the Fourth Annual
VW Buses, Bands, 'n Brews event in Oregonia Ohio on
May 21-23 (sponsored by the Ohio Valley Tribe of the
Full Moon Bus Club)  BTW, Oregonia is exactly 36 miles
north of Downtown Cincinnati, right off of I-71. Web
site addy is:  http://www.geocities.com/buses_n_boats

CAMPGROUND: I visited the host camp ground (The Olive
Branch Campground) last week and the new shelter is
complete! It is friggin huge!! Soooo, if the unheard
of happens and it rains (although I am CONFIDENT that
it will be beautiful weather!) then we have the giant
shelter in which to stay dry.  Anyway, when you enter
the campground follow the signs back to our area,
where you will register with me. DO NOT register at
the campground office, look for the green canopy in
our camping area for registration. We will have our
own area of the campground, including water and
electric hook-ups. Depending on the number of people
we get, we may need to park 2-3 buses on some of the
larger sites, so if you come with friends, you should
probably go ahead and share a site with them.  Please
DO NOT park on the grass (per managements request)
PARK ONLY ON THE PAVED OR GRAVEL AREA AT EACH SITE. If
you have an extra car which you will not need to sleep
in, then you may park it in the visitors parking area.
 There will also be fire rings at each site. You are
welcome to build your own personal fire, HOWEVER we
encourage everyone to hang out around the central fire
ring in our area, that way we can all get to know one
another and be sociable.  And yes, Frank, I will make
the committment to buy a cord of firewood to have
onsite!!  Saturdays organized activities including
breakfast, homebrew tasting, dinner, prizes and music
will take place at the Campground shelter which is not
located in our area, but is only a couple hundred
yards walk from our area. I am working with the
campground management to make sure we will have a fire
ring near the shelter as well!  Olive Branch is
privately owned, so alcohol is permitted, but PLEASE,
PLEASE, PLEASE be smart about it!  You may have open
display of alcohol at your site and in our separate
area, but if you are moving about the campground
PLEASE keep alcohol in a cup or mug or something other
than the bottle or can.  Also, please be courteous to
the other campers who are not in our group. Campground
quite hours begin at 11:00 pm.  And of course, being a
Summer Camp Director as part of my day job, I make a
committment to LEAVE THE AREA EVEN CLEANER THAN BEFORE
WE ARRIVED, so please help me out with this.  The only
fees associated with this event are the camping fees. 
Camping fees will be $10 per person per night, or $25
per night for a family of four (2 adults, 2 children) 
Additional kids over the age of 2 years will be $5,
kids under 2 years will be free. We will accept cash
or checks for camping fees, sorry, no credit cards can
be accepted.

DOOR PRIZES:  I need them!! So if you have anything VW
related that you would like to donate for a door
prize, then give it to me at the time of registration.
Examples of door prizes could include (but NOT limited
to) things such as: Tshirts, magnets, VW books, local
novelties from your home state, and pretty much
anything else that you think may be cool to give away!
Everyone in attendance will be eligible for door the
door prize drawing.

FAMILY EVENT:  This, as are all OVT events, is a
FAMILY FRIENDLY event.  I'll have my 2, 5, and 12 year
old kids along, so bring yours!  There is a lot for
the kids to do including:  Huge playground, fishing
lake (NO license required), game room, swimming pool
(weather permitting), hiking trails, places to ride
bikes, and of course...Bubbles!!  The kids usually
have as much or more fun than we "adults" do.  Your
canine offspring are also welcome, but the campground
management has a "Leash at all times" policy for the
poochies.

50\50 RAFFLE:  There will be a 50\50 raffle drawing as
well.  Tickets may be purchased at the registrtion
tent and will cost $1 for one or $5 for six.  Drawing
will be held Saturday at dinner and the winner will
get half of the cash, with the other half going to
support the musical acts (who are playing for FREE, by
the way) to help cover the cost of guitar strings and
what not.

MEALS:  Friday meals will be on your own, but I will
provide a big gas grill that will be available to
anyone who wants to use it.  For Saturday breakfast
(9:00 am at the large shelter) we will be creating the
World Famous Full Moon Bus Club Breakfast Burritos
(notice that I said "WE" will be creating!) This means
that anyone who wants to can bring a breakfast
ingredient such as: Sausage, Peppers, Eggs, Tortillas,
Onions, Cheese, Salsa, etc.  Then Dungeon-master Frank
Biffath III will crack the whip and combine all the
ingredients to make sure that our "chefs" create a
mouth-watering meal that you didn't think would be
possible in a campground. We will also need to borrow
some camp stoves, pots, etc as well as manual labor
(see Dungeon Mater Frank to volunteer;^)
Then for Dinner on Saturday at about 6:00 pm, Frank
Biffath has graciously agreed to prepare his 2 time
Everybus Champion Chili for everyone to enjoy.  Bring
a side dish and we will have a pot luck dinner to
share on Saturday.  For anyone who has not experienced
a "Frank Biffath Pot of Chili", you are in for a
treat.  The pot is usually about 50 gallons, including
approximately 75 pounds of meat and various other
unknown ingredients (kinda like Ted's cherries!) 
Anyway, making a pot of chili that is bigger than my
first apartment can be an expensive venture, so if you
feel so inclined, you can drop a buck or two into the
jar to help cover Franks expenses.  ALL ORGANIZED
MEALS WILL BE AT THE LARGE SHELTER.

HOMEBREW TASTING:  The Homebrew tasting will be
Saturday at 4:00 pm at the large shelter.  This is
sure to be a treat! I know of at least 4 individuals
who have brewed batches of beer (possibly wines) to
share for this tasting.  If you have a batch, bring it
to the shelter about 3:30, you may want to bring a
little sign with your name, the name of your brew, its
qualities, etc. to place on the table next to it.  It
would be nice if someone could bring a cheese and
cracker tray or some other appetizers for
"pallet-cleansing" between samples, any volunteers?? 
Not a brew master? Thats OK, bring a locally brewed
beer or wine from you home state\region to share. 
Again, we need to keep the alcohol contained to the
shelter during this time and not moving about the
campground.  Also, bring a mug for this event, as
drinking from the bottles is not suggested nor
permitted for fear of cooties transmission! 

MUSICAL ACTS: During the Homebrew tasting, CLARK
GORDON will be performing for our entertainment.  Do
you like acoustic music?  Do you like guitar? Do you
like classic folk-rock style music?  If so, you will
love Clark Gordon. Clark is one of the most talented
musicians\singers I have ever met personally, and he
does THE BEST Neil Young I have ever heard. 
Hopefully, he will also treat us to some of his
original material.  After dinner, about 7:30 pm, the
band "MAN MADE MOON" will perform.  The only way to
describe the music of Man Made Moon is to say that
Bluegrass and Classic Rock had a love child which
neither is willing to claim, that is the music of MMM!
 Mostly original roots-rock type material with a few
popular cover tunes (grateful dead, etc.) thrown in
for good measure.

TSHIRTS: If you pre-ordered your event tshirt, you can
pay me the $12 per shirt at the time of registration. 
If you have not pre-ordered your tshirt, then you
missed that boat, sorry. However, I will have A VERY
LIMITED QUANTITY of extras for sale on a first
come-first served basis. If you did not pre-order, the
price for the shirts goes up to $15.

Wow, I think that's all I have to say for now, except
that I am really looking forward to meeting everyone
and catching up with the ones I already know!

LETS GO CAMPING!!!!!!!!!!!

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1967 Kombi soon to be camper!
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
