Date: Tue, 4 May 2004 16:59:25 -0500
From: Tim Woenker <multipang(-at-)kconline.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Head problems again/911 engine?

Greetings all:

I have recently re-subscribed to the list after an absence of a couple 
of years.  The good news is that I still have my '79 Westy, cal 
emissions, stock electronic ignition etc.  The bad news is that I'm 
getting tired of having to screw around with the heads every year or 
so.  For 145,000 miles the bus was utterly reliable, then I dropped a 
valve seat.  At this point, I purchased a complete rebuild from 
reasonably well recommended (on the list)  turnkey rebuilder.  After 
about 7000 miles I had to install another set of heads on due to a 
burned exhaust valve.  These replacement heads were supplied under 
warrranty by the rebuilder even though the warranty had expired at 
least 6 months earlier.  Now, after another 6500 miles, it looks like 
I've got low compression in one of the cylinders again.  I've been 
around VWs continuously since 1976, and I understand and practice the 
importance of regular valve adjustment.    These hydraulics were 
scrupulously adjusted to 1 turn in in accordance with the rebuilder's 
instructions.  I've owned my bus since 1990 and it lives a pampered 
life and is well cared for.  There is no reason for it not to be 
reliable.

I require and am willing to pay a fair price to have a reliable bus, 
that will take me anywhere.  Reliable enough that I don't have to be 
pulling the engine every 18 months to do major engine work.  I'm 
beginning to believe that its close to impossible to get a decent pair 
of type IV heads anymore, or at least that it is a crap-shoot at best.

So I've been thinking about installing a Porsche 911 engine for 
reliability.  Has anyone on the list done this who might be able to 
advise me with regard to what might be involved?  It seemed like there 
was a guy on the list named Sammy a few years back who did this.  I'm 
thinking of a 2.4L CIS engine.  Will I need a 915 tranny or can I go 
with the stock tranny?  What else do I need to know?

Any help would be greatly appreciated.

timatt
'79 westy
