Date: Tue, 4 May 2004 20:50:27 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Head problems again/911 engine?

Tim,
Greg has some very good points,, I'd like to add a bit.
His reply had to do with valve head burning,, your message had to do with seat
failure.  I think they are from 2 different reasons.

I am going to assume Greg did not know what the valves were made of..  and were not
suitable to today's fuel.
The burnt valve heads Greg was dealing with burned like they were not seating,, I
can't say what actually caused the failure,, wrong valve material, or non seating
valve heads,, or a little of both.
But I am pretty sure it wasn't gas blends that burned them,,

I am sure someone on the list can fill in the proper material a valve/seat should be
made of for longevity.

then there is the problem you [Tim] spoke of ,, dropped valve seats.

Greg addressed this well,, as he said cylinder head temperatures will tell you
before you drop a seat...
as he found out,, valve heads can burn off without transferring the heat to the
cylinder head, so there is no increase in cylinder heat temperature gauge readings.
In fact that is usually the reason the valve head burns, as it doesn't transfer the
heat to the cylinder head.
I don't think it was fuel that burned Greg's valve,, but I could be totally wrong on
that point!

My point is ,, if you use quality valves and they are seating correctly,, and you
have a CHT gauge,, you can make your aircooled engine much more reliable.
If you drive like me,, 70 - 75 mph,, you have to let up when the CHT gauge starts to
climb,, you can try different blends and see if you can spot the head temp
difference,, I can't so far.

I have seen lots recently,, [over 32] heads drop a valve seat.... none of those
drivers had a CHT gauge.
I have seen very few valves burn,,, [3] in over 25 years
but Like I always say,, I have never seen a million dollars,, but I know it exists.
So I am sure there are burnt valves out there,, but, is it from Gas blending??,, or
is it a mechanical fault?
Me thinks mechanical.

Valve seat failures are really caused by a combination of things [engine tune,
driving habits] that are worsened now due to the extra heat in the blended fuels.

I guess the big question is,, Tim, do you have a CHT gauge?

Jamie Rivers
Ont CANADA

original message-----------

Greg Wrote
Hi Tim,

I feel your pain. Last summer I burned two valves within 700 miles.
Both repairs required a major teardown. The seats were fine, but the
valves had HUGE pieces missing out of them. My bus spent a lot of time
on jackstands and I got very little done on my other projects.

Personally, I suspect the problem lies with the fuel rather than with
the cylinder heads. New heads are as likely to fail as originals that
have run fine for years. The ingredients and procedures used to
manufacture gasoline just are not what they used to be. If you ask a
fuel manufacturer what impact that has on combustion temps, you will
get a very carefully phrased "I don't know". If you ask a petrochemical
engineer off the record you will get a lot more info. Modern fuels are
no longer manufactured with air-cooled engines in mind. I now run with
a CHT gauge and monitor it carefully, but I know for certain that there
was not excessive heat when the valve failures occurred. They just came
apart, and they took my horsepower with them.

What to do about it? Lower compression might help. Experimenting with
fuel grades and/or suppliers might also help. Changing driving style
WILL help.  Otherwise I would suggest that a watercooled conversion
would offer more long-term reliability than what you will get from a
big-bore aircooled engine.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

On 4-May-04, at 5:59 PM, Tim Woenker wrote:
> I require and am willing to pay a fair price to have a reliable bus,
> that will take me anywhere.  Reliable enough that I don't have to be
> pulling the engine every 18 months to do major engine work.  I'm
> beginning to believe that its close to impossible to get a decent pair
> of type IV heads anymore, or at least that it is a crap-shoot at best.


-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
