From: "Jake Raby" <massivetype4(-at-)aircooledtechnology.com>
To: "'Jamie Rivers'" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 5 May 2004 16:01:27 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Head problems again/911 engine?

Okay , This one deserves some of my attention..... I normally sit here and
watch. Today I'm waiting on a customer to come watch his dyno session so
I'll answer this one as in depth as I can before he arrives.

First and foremost-There are no "Problems" with the Type IV head and its
reliability!! The key is proper valve seat materials, proper valves and all
other areas of engine configuration in order. The cylinder heads illustrate
and exaggerate other engine problems and most of the time fail BECAUSE OF
ANOTHER PROBLEM WITH THE ENGINE! Below I will go over in detail some of the
most important causes and effects associated with the TIV cylinder head. As
you read this please understand that I have not had a single head failure on
one of our engines since 1997. This spans full race 200HP 914 engines that
turn 7,000 RPM all the time, clear down to our Camper special bus engines.
One of my customers drove his bus from Arizona where he lives to Costa Rica,
and then clear to Newfoundland on a 25,000+ mile vacation that spanned 6
months! This is a normal type of trip for most of my customers that are
looking for a correctly designed, properly assembled engine.


Head castings:

Yes, over nearly 30 years cylinder heads do see stress, and adverse effects
from it. Many of the super High Performance engines that I build I choose
these heads BECAUSE THEY HAVE BEEN HEAT CYCLED, and chances are that they
won't warp as easily the first time the driver doesn't pay attention to his
CHT gauge. An older head such as a 1.7 "Q" head is a great core for a solid
bus engine. They have stronger chambers and resist cracks better than any
other head I have seen. Their chambers work well with a dished 2.0 piston
and they simply need boring to the larger 2.0 register to bolt right on. The
early 1.8 heads are also a great for a bulletproof bus engine. When I built
my 2109cc Powerstroke engine for my bus I chose a set of 1.8 heads and went
for 42x36 valves to compliment my custom camshaft, and port velocities for a
wider more usable power band. This engine has 54K in the last 3 years and is
ONLY used as a work horse for towing cars and engines to car shows all over
the southeast. This includes 5 annual trips across the Smokey Mountains
where it normally TOWS MY FULL BODIED BEETLE without missing a beat or
having head temps over 380 degrees. The engine is outfitted with CIS
injection that I retrofitted from Mercedes, BMW, and VW Rabbit parts. It has
8.8:1 CR and has not been touched in 3 years other than an oil change or
two!

Old heads that have a few stress cracks can be repaired as long as the
welder drills the crack completely out and re-welds. My Porsche engine in
the 912E is a good example of this. The engine had been severely over heated
when I received it and had a head leak so bad that the head was melted away.
My head technician took another junk head, cut a pie shaped piece of it away
on the donor head and may head and re-welded it back in place! That engine
has seen 49K in 21 months and is a full time daily driver and Road Track
car- it has 9:1 and the head that was repaired doesn't even think about
leaking! Its all in procedure.

The new AMC heads have great castings! Too bad that's all that they have
going for them! I use these in most of my engines, but only after a complete
rebuild using my hardware, valves, guides, seats and machining. We resurface
everything including the valve cover seating area! The valves and seats they
use are horrible and worse than the original heads from VW. They still
suffer from the same machining problems that the factory heads did, but only
worse. Many of them that we see have only a .0015 interference fit on the
seats! Not even a water cooled cylinder head will survive at that tolerance!

They are great heads if you treat them like they are 30 years old and
rebuild them! We use them because even after doing all this work it is still
faster and easier for us than welding cracks and sourcing good early heads-
and the results are equally satisfying for us.

Any casting is only as good as the parts that comprise it and work along
with it. Once again, there is nothing wrong with the Type IV head! They
limit me in HP, that's why I'm making my own version for big engines!
Cooling and longevity is, and never has been an issue for us- just HP!


Valve seats

This is where things get interesting. The OEM heads had a "sintered
material" that VW used to make the valve seats. This material is known to
shrink with heat, and the hotter it gets the more it shrinks. The material
is part of the equation of the seats dropping. We change our seat material
dependant upon the application for the engine and operating temperature that
it will be staying at for extended amounts of time. It is not uncommon to
heat a stock TIV head to 450 degrees and remove the seats with just one wang
from the hammer!

The installation of these seats may just be the biggest "trick" to them
staying in place at extended temperatures better than stock. This procedure
requires the head to be properly bored for the seat and then installed with
an interference fit of at least .008. We use .008 with most of our seats and
their materials and up to .012 with race engines. Some shops in the past
just kept stock material and installed with up to .020 fit- one fast way to
crack a chamber!

Once valve seats are installed correctly you won't be having seat dropping
issues, as long as the rest of the engine doesn't have extreme issues that
cause them... I have purposely overheated our heads to 600 degrees on an
engine on the dyno and only noticed slight movement in the seats.

First and foremost- Keep your engine cool! Even a crappy set of reman heads
won't drop a seat as long as they don't get hot! Heat drops seats as the
seat shrinks and the head expands and the interference fit disappears! I
will go into CHT also in this same post, below in detail.
KEEP IT COOL!

Valves

This is the easy part. Good valves are easy to find. I use SI Valves and
Marnel valves in bus engines, and Manley for race engines, I also offer the
Manleys for severe demanding bus engines that use Nikisil cylinders and top
notch parts. All the companies have good valves, just shy away from the ones
made in Italy called "Osvat" they are cheap and they drop and stretch
horribly. I also do not like the TRW valves, they pound easily and leak
after only a few thousand miles. Valves are cheap, so but the best you can!

Valve guides

These are not as easy to come by as a good valve. I have mine custom made.
All the above listed valve companies except Manley make guides as well.
Installing and reaming the guides is a big part of the head process as loose
guides kill TIV engines.  Worn guides exaggerate valve wear and help to drop
valves. Loose intake guides burn oil (it pulls oil by the guide from the
valve cover) and losse exhaust guides contribute to excess crankcase
pressure as exhaust is forced past them into the valve cover. A good
silicon- bronze guide properly installed is good for most bus applications.

Machining

Head leaks and loose heads also plague the TIV until a few procedures are
used to stop it. In 1981 VW issued a bulletin stating that the factory head
gaskets should be removed at rebuild time and replaced with barrel shims
of.030 to maintain the same CR as factory. This is due to the poor design of
these shims and them separating and causing head leaks. Anyone who has seen
my rebuild video has seen these detrimental effects as I go over them in
detail.

We take extreme measures when machining head registers for TIV engines. I
use procedures that compliment a "Carbon seal" at the cylinder/head mating
surface and this greatly reduces head leakage initially, and after a couple
thousand miles totally eliminates the issue as the carbon actually seals the
heads.

So, have the heads machined, and toss away the gaskets, then recalculate
your CR. This will get rid of another TIV head issue that brings busses to
their knees.

I would be here all day going over machining, but all I can say is trust it
to a TIV head specialist, and I only know of two in the US that have been
able to impress me. I keep one of them busy 365 days a year.

Now we are to my favorite part- "The REST of the story" as Paul Harvey would
say...

The stock cooling system-

Its adequate and has very few issues! I have been doing cooling system
testing for the past 14 months and have spent 14,000 dollars coming to the
assumption that the stock system is very comparable to a Porsche 911 fan on
the TIV engine!!! Concentrate on "Internally cooling" your engine and not
creating the heat THEN getting rid of the heat that you produce and you will
be miles ahead in the TIV equation to success!

Engine design- its all in the combo!!

The rest of the story in this case is the rest of the engine. The rest of
the engine is where the heat can be generated that kills your heads. Many
head issues are not head issues initially, they were engine problems. These
problems primarily stem from MISCONFIGURATION! The stock engine being bad,
and the hydraulic stock engine being the WORST!

Some of the hardcore stock guys on the list probably won't like what I have
to say, but that's not going to stop me, in fact it fuels my fire to try and
get it through their heads that the stock engine is simply inefficient the
way the factory designed it!

 The fact is that the factory had a huge challenge that was impossible to
achieve. This challenge was to build an engine that could be shipped from
Africa to Antarctica and perform! Most VWs were sold in cold climates, and
most of the test work was done in Germany. Due to this VW tried to produce
an engine that would perform better for most of their customer base- those
in cold climates. One of their main goals was to get the engine to operating
temperature as fast as possible to reduce wear when cold. 

In doing this they created a camshaft that is terrible for most of us in the
states with warmer climates, and especially those at higher elevation. The
camshaft has properties that one would typically see in an aircraft engine
that normally never revs over 3,300 RPM and operates with odd cylinder
pressure with "Av-Gas" used as a fuel and as a COOLANT. The stock cam has
odd centerlines, and also incorporates several factors that were designed to
warm the engine up faster. Unfortunately these same factors make the
cylinder heads soak up a ton of heat and not dissipate it well at all- THIS
ENHANCES CYLINDER HEAD ISSUES BY HAVING OVERHEATED ENGINES MUCH EASIER! 

In my opinion the stock static CR is too much for the stock camshaft, BUT
reducing the CR with the stock cam also creates big issues with
inefficiency. This can be seen by monitoring Exhaust Gas Temperatures (EGT).
I tried many, many times to make the stock cam work and never had any luck.
I went over a span from 6.4:1 to 8.1:1 and saw the same results. I also
tried different lobe centerlines on stock cams and finally came to the
determination that there is no way to make the stock cam run as efficient in
today' world as a properly designed replacement cam with a few performance
attributes. The stock cam is the cause of MOST cylinder head issues, mostly
due to heat that cannot be gotten rid of out the exhaust port due to its
design.

Hydraulic valves

Nothing causes more failures!!!
Like it or not, here is the scoop on those wonderful hydro valves that keep
you from adjusting your valves. I hate them so bad that I refuse to build
any engine with them and have had this policy since 1997. You'll see why
below.

They are killing the engine! VW switched to them in late 1978 because of
lost sales from guys not wanting to adjust their valves. Keep in mind that
Porsche ONLY went to them in the latest of the 993s and that was only for 3
months before going water cooled. This was not due to performance, it was
due to the aircooled engines ability to have proper and consistant valve
timing and with longevity. The oil in our aircooled engines is hard to keep
from having contaminants due to the design of the engine. These contaminants
have terrible effects on hydro lifters and contribute to failures.

The hydro lifter promotes negligence as guys think they are set once and
never touched again- not true. They need adjusting every 12-15K! Hydro
valves always keep tension in the valve train and the lobe never loses
contact with the valve. This significantly wears the entire camshaft lobe,
and lifter way more than any solid lifter. It actually wears the heel of the
lobe as well because the lifter traces it all the time, something that
decreases the lifespan of the cam and lifters dramatically. This wear gives
even more contaminants to the oil to be circulated through the engine. Some
of that ends up inside the lifters and chews them apart and they explode and
cause a failure... The rest of it ends up in the main bearings and only part
of it is filtered out by the stock NON FULL FLOW filtration system.

Valve adjustments are the moment of truth for any aircooled engine. You
should be proud to do them, and keep in mind that they can teach you more
about the engine than anything else, especially if you don't have a CHT
gauge. Tight valves mean hot heads! Heat makes the valves move from
expansion, seats move from expansion and valve clearances are closed as a
result. HEADS THAT RUN TOO HOT AND TIGHTEN VALVES - WILL BURN VALVES AND
WILL CAUSE LOW COMPRESSION AND HEAD ISSUES! Hydraulic valves cover up the
symptoms of tight valves and trick the owner into thinking that things are
just fine, this is one reason that I hate them, on top of at least 30
others. When you do a valve adjustment it is an inspection that gives you
the opportunity to see
1-	Valve guide wear
2-	Valve stretch and seat movement
3-	Valve adjuster wear
4-	Camshaft /lifter wear
5-	Opportunity to see if the heads have been running hot.

Keep in mind that heads that are not overheated will not have tight valves,
unless something weird enters into the equation. Keep in mind that valves
that are not allowed to get tight will not burn! The hydro lifters burn
valves worse than any thing else we have seen.

Temperatures

HEAD TEMPS AND OIL TEMPS ARE SEPARATE- THEY DO NOT DEPEND ON EACH OTHER FOR
ONE TO BE ADVERSELY EFFECTING THE ENGINE(-at-)!!!!

Head temperatures are totally dependant upon engine tuning, and load. Oil
temps are dependant upon engine tuning, RPM and oil viscosity. They are
heavily impacted by ambient temps whereas head temps are not! 

Head temps
 First off BUY A DAMN CHT GAUGE AND INSTALL THE THERMOCOUPLE UNDER THE #3
SPARK PLUG! NO WHERE ELSE- ELSE READINGS WILL BE LOW!

The installation of a quality CHT gauge pretty much makes your bus a rolling
dyno. The CHT gauge should be considered a tool, more than anything else. I
won't drive an aircooled vehicle without one.

Head temps can change by 200 degrees in one given mile, depending upon load.
Head temps are greatly impacted in busses by tire heights and gear ratios,
and by the amount of cargo you are hauling, and even head winds. It is
possible for your head temps to be fine at cruise, and when you hit a hill
to spike to overheat fast. This is not good for heads at all. 

Head temps can change by 30+ degrees just because of timing. A good way of
seeing an engine tuning issue is speed on the freeway. If your heads run 350
all the time and when you speed up without a head wind they climb to 400,
your timing is probably high, or carbs/FI is lean OR you may have a
mis-configuration. Stock engines will do this many times when tuned
perfectly and its all because of that wonderful cam that I HATE.

Oil temps do not generally impact head temps unless the oil is so hot that
the guides hardly lube, then some heat will show up in the heads. YOUR OIL
TEMPERATURE GAUGE IS USELESS IF USED STAND ALONE! Heads can fry while oil
looks perfectly fine on the gauge. You MUST measure both. I have seen so
many baked heads and the owner says "The temp never got hot" come to find
out the temp he was talking about was oil temp- not heads. Open the wallet
and don't cry if this happens because a CHT gauge is less than 100 bucks, so
there is no excuse! 

Its just like the dipstick test. unless that dipstick is touching the
combustion chamber it being hot is worthless relative to head temps.

Oil Temperatures

OIL TEMPS DO NOT EFFECT THE CYLINDER HEADS UNLESS THEY ARE EXTREME!

Due to this I will only slightly touch on them in this post.. Oil temps are
totally dependant upon RPM and seldom effected by load. The oil cools the
valvetrain components and valve guides lubricated, but these parts are
seldom problematic as so much oil is fed to them via the pushrods. Oil
temperatures should be monitored but they seldom impact cylinder heads. Oil
temperatures are a very delayed reading because the oil must soak up the
heat and then the sender takes a sample and send it to the cockpit. They are
very slow to respond to changes in engine tune and should not be relied upon
in any way for engine tuning.

The engine is slightly oil cooled, but cool oil does not keep valves from
burning. COOLING THE OIL DOES NOT COOL THE HEADS! So you can have a 5000
quart oil system and radiator from a Mack truck for an oil cooler and still
fry your heads. 

Fuels

I run 93 octane and have had no problems with the fuel killing an engine
yet. The 93 octane promotes my engine configurations as we believe in peak
efficiency and higher static CR bled by the proper camshaft. Fuel is not the
issue as long as the engine isn't running lean. 
 

Okay, my customer just arrived for the dyno test, so I must go now. I will
leave you with this:

If you have a stock engine, buy a CHT gauge and fiddle with engine tuning
till you can cruise at less than 350 all the time. At your first mishap-
split the case, remove the cam and install a camshaft that has a tad more
lift and duration and matches the engine combination. Bump up your CR to
compliment the camshaft and broaden the power band. Much can be learned
about TIV camshafts on www.shoptalkforums.com Type4rum or my forum at
http://www.shoptalkforums.com/viewforum.php?f=47  When you choose the cam go
for solid lifters! The key to unlocking the Type IV engine(in all aspects)
is the camshaft!

If you are in the middle of building your engine now, think about
configuration and modern engines. Toss the stock cam idea and opt for
something like a Web 73 grind. The 73 works well for most applications with
a bus, and the cams that I use were originally inspired by a 73 grind but
the offer different centerlines and more exhaust duration to take advantage
of the great flowing TIV intake valve and port. 

Hopefully you will install slightly larger valves and bump up the CR a bit
to enhance efficiency. Done right you will yield an engine that is capable
of running cooler than stock, for more miles than stock, and making at least
20% more power.

Spend your money on the best damn heads you can, and don't skimp! Don't
trust them to any local shop or Type I engine expert- They don't know these
engines! 

I'm sorry if this post has been too long, and too straight to the point. I
work with these engines exclusively and have been "spear-heading" their
research and fast forwarding their design to new levels as a life. Please do
not feel that I give any disrespect to the VW designers on what they
created- I'm not. I gained my experience with TIV engines working in an
import shop as a kid and doing ONLY Type IV engine work because no one else
liked them. I had my first paying customer for an engine rebuild at age 13
and have never slowed down with my attempts of unlocking this engine!

I'm always here watching and will interject what I can when I can especially
on such a touchy subject filled with myth.

I can only hope that your VW experiences with the Type IV engine can be 50%
as good as mine with the Type IV engine- If so you'll NEVER sell your bus!

Jake Raby
Owner, Raby's Aircooled Technology
www.aircooledtechnology.com
www.massivetype4.com
