From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Curt Conklin <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>, mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com, 
Date: Thu, 25 Sep 2003 15:20:04 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] "Restorations, rebuilds, customs and DNA

 I wonder then how many TRUE restored VW's there are out there. I do not
think I have ever seen a "restored" VW using ALL genuine OG VW parts.

ronnie

ps. David did you have all your chrome plating done over in Germany or is it
some aftermarket chrome plating crap done here in the U S. Now you did use
Glassurite paint imported from Germany, not the stuff they formulate here in
the U S , right. I can at least say my bus is painted with PPG Global which
is imported from Germany (the red color)!!! and at a HEFTY PRICE

-----Original Message-----
From: Curt Conklin [mailto:CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu]
Sent: Thursday, September 25, 2003 3:01 PM
To: mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] "Restorations, rebuilds, customs and DNA


David,

Is this your way of saying there is a difference with resto using OG VW
parts, and say, VW/Brazilian/Mexican parts?  Would you include other
aftermarket components in the second level, or would that be altogether
a third level of "resto?"  I can see the logic.

There certainly needs to be an "all original" OG VW parts resto to
respect, and then go from there.

Curt

>>> "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com> 09/25/03 03:54PM >>>
If you drill down deep enough, there could never be an 'ultimate'
resto.
There will ALWAYS be compromises, but I think that's why we say
'restored' in the first place.  You say to the dude looking at your
car
at the show, "This thing here that yer lookin at has utilized all og
parts, correct color, blah blah blah... Its restored as close to its
condition as it left the factory as I could get".  Or, you could have
said, "I built this thing to represent what a hot rod could have been
on
June 15, 1972, all parts are period correct", or how 'bout "I found a
bunch of pieces and I slapped it together... it's restored to driving
condition"...  If you simply have a plan to build a car with specific
*new* components (i.e. Ronnie) I'd call it a 'custom' or 'driver' or
whatever, since it's not being restored to anything except for it's
capacity to provide reliable daily transportation (no offense Ronnie).

I think we shouldn't get confused to 'maintained with original parts'
and 'restored with original parts' either... 

David

-
