Date: Fri, 26 Sep 2003 01:29:00 -0400
From: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: stock, original, period

The thread on "restoration" got me thinking about my own preferences, 
especially lately with my '65 Neunsitzer (my 221, using Hollis 
Nomenclature :).  No one will ever mistake one of my VWs for a vintage 
restoration (well, actually, some civilians do), but I try to keep it 
looking at least "period" in terms of accessories and add-ons.  It's 
just more fun for me and part of what I like about these old machines - 
the times they came from.  I don't look down on (all) customs, just not 
my bag.  Guy brought a nicely tricked out Vanagon to a recent meeting 
of our local club: custom sunroof and aluminum sheeting in interior, 
neons inside and out, Subaru engine.  It was very cool, but I think I'd 
rather have a Honda Element. :)

I agree with the observation that some "true" restorers are going for 
points or recognition and hate any dilution of the term "restored" 
either because of their time and effort or just a sense of 
perfectionism, obsession, or being a completist.  I can relate to the 
latter, since I do keep a list of the remaining original parts I'm 
still hunting for my cars, and I can get crazy about camper parts  ("Is 
that a correct drawer pull?").  When you expend effort on that it does 
make you get kinda huffy about the half-*ssed work of others if it's 
equated with yours.

But then, in the grand scheme of Important Things it's a -- a what out 
of 10?  You have to consider just how important and valuable a concours 
restoration or a complete, original Westy is in this world.  It's just 
a hobby, a luxury.  Just a machine.  It's not even art.  You don't get 
any more karmic points than a bodybuilder or someone with a nicely 
landscaped lawn.  Never forget: you can earn way more by making someone 
smile.

Of course, if you can make them smile with a nice looking bus (restored 
or otherwise), you get extra special bonus karma.  It says so right 
here.

Joe Clark
www.jsclark.net
