From: "Phil & Laurie Gowdy" <philgowdy(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: "The Bus List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 19:22:42 -0500
Subject: Re:Lack of Confidence in Van

John wrote: "Anyone have tremendous mileage on a type 4 without any valve
seat failure?
Anyone ever drive the van very far after dropping the valve seat? :-)

Is the failure really inevitable?"


To this I reply:
   I 've been twice lucky ;) having the infamous valve seat drop on The
Contraption (73 Westy 1700cc dual carbs)
The first time I was close to home at the local library and upon startup I
heard a rather strange rattle sound .
I drove it home 2 miles noting excessive power loss. Upon checking the
compression I found #3 to be zero.
A tear down revealed a valve seat pounded into the head. I ordered and
installed 2 rebuilt heads from AVP in CA
as well as replace most seals, gaskets, tin repaint etc.
All was well for about 12000 miles.
Last April on our way south to Everybus, we (I in the Contraption and Jamie
Rivers and kids in his 74 Westy) were having fun passing
one another on the very hilly highways in PA and VA. One long downhill I got
The Contraption up to about 75mph which I rarely do
and as I was passing Jamie we heared a very loud rattle from my engine.Sh*t!
I noted a small loss of power but we headed on a few hundred miles more to
W.WA for the night.
After consulting the other bus drivers I checked the lash and found #3 again
very tight.
Jamie looked at the valve stems and was able to determine the seat had come
loose and then pounded itself deeper into the head as
the #3 stem was higher. I didn't have to many options so we continued the
other 3-400 miles to Everybus. The bus ran not bad but would idle
irratically
and the power it usually had was gone.
Talking to others (Dolan) at Everybus we decided to back the #3 adjuster off
the stem as far as I could and just drive the bus home.
It was about 1000 miles home for me and the last 300 I drove with the pedal
to the floor to keep the engine running. It stalled at every light.
I made it home and stalled once more in the driveway. I left it till morning
where upon it wouldn't start!
Tearing the motor down this time I found of course #3 seat pounded far into
the head AND #1 was as well!
This time I purchased known good rebuilt heads closer to Home (Thanks Den)
and also replaced the pistons and cylinders, as well as both heat
exchangers.
On advice from Den I replced the 127.5 main jets in my stock carbs with
130s. This hopefully makes the heads run a little cooler preventing seat
drop.
   I can say you can make it home on 3 or 3 and a half cylinders!
I just ordered a VDO head temp gauge and sender and will install it before
this years trip to Everybus.
I'll also think twice when Jamie wants to play!

Phil Gowdy
73 Westy
The Contraption
Cold Ontario Canada
