Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 19:43:45 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: mark robert drovdahl <mdrovdahl(-at-)yahoo.co.uk>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] exhaust stud dilemma

On Mon, Mar 10, 2003 at 04:45:22PM -0800, mark robert drovdahl wrote:
> That's right folks, I broke one of the rear studs while removing the 
> driver's side exhaust manifold on my 75 bus. Disappointing indeed. 
> After much archive research and a few phone calls, armed with Muir's 
> book and a socket set, I spent the afternoon attempting to remove the 
> cylinder head- no luck. It seemed from others' posts that I should be 
> able to remove it without dropping the engine. I got the rocker-arms 
> and push rods out easily enough, but the head absolutely will not budge.

I'll address some other ideas in a minute, but as far as the remove
the head while in the engine bay, it's possible, but very trickey. I
haven't removed the drivers side head before in my bus, but have
removed the passenger side one. Can be done, but on your side of the
engine is the oil cooler which I believe will hinder some movement.
Easiest way to remove the head (btw there are 8 bolts holding it on,
not just the 4 you see when removing the valve cover) is by pulling
the engine first.
 
> So, this is a cry for help. Can anyone suggest something I would have 
> missed? My specific maintenance experience is mostly limited to Vespa 
> scooters...my goal is to get the head off in order to deal with the 
> broken stud, but this one has me baffled.

Now on to more constructive discussions :) What have you tried in
order to remove the head stud? Buggered up exhaust studs are a huge
pain sometimes. The 2 things that seem to work good are a liberal dose
of liquid wrench (or other fluid such as that) taken with a good dose
of time for it to work. The other good way to unstick bolts like this
is with head. Is there any of the stud hanging out or is it all broken
into the head? I would get a small propane torch (plumbing type) and
put some heat on the head surrounding the bolt. Try to not get the
flame on the bolt, to keep it as cool as possible. You might find that
the bolt can be removed. Worth a shot, but then again , you might have
already tried this.


-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
