From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 18:51:29 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Lack of Confidence in Van

Hi Folks,

Returning to the original topic of this thread, I wanted to share my  story 
in the hopes that it helps the Lack of Confidence folks.

When I bought Sweet Pea, I drove it with complete confidence, and enjoyed 
every mile.  Then one of my buddies suggested that I get a rebuild since the 
engine had at least 90k miles on it.  I began to worry a bit more as I drove 
farther and farther afield and into places that had fewer and fewer people.  
Still, the van drove great.

Then the engine began making rod-knocking noises when driving around town.  
Convinced that the engine was on its way out, I parked the van, moved in 
with some friends to save on rent, and started saving for a new engine.  I 
also thought about getting rid of the bus, but a bus without an engine is 
not worth as much.

So, I saved and bought a new engine that ran great.  It ran so great that it 
got me to the Utah/Nevada border on US-50.  Then a bad bolt sheared and I 
was suck in the middle of nowhere with a brand-new engine that didn't run.  
I got it fixed by a local mechanic, but lost most of my confidence in the 
van and the new engine.

However, as I drove back to Colorado, I began to regain confidence, and as 
I've driven it more and more, my confidence has gotten better and better.  
These days, I carry anything I'd need to do a get-you-home repair, and I 
still worry.  I'd drive to California and back if I had the time, and I'd 
start tonight with the van just the way it is.  I figure there's not much 
point in worrying too much until something really goes wrong.

I'd suggest doing as much preventative maintenance as you can, learning as 
much about fixing your van as you can, and start saving for a new engine.  
If it hasn't gone by now, it might just get you another 50k miles.  Or, you 
may cook the engine on the way to the store tomorrow.  If you put too much 
time and effort into worrying, you leave yoursef little energy to enjoy 
driving your van.  And, if you don't enjoy driving your van, why keep it?

Hope my 2 cents helped...

Jason Upper
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea"
http://www.jzupper.com/
Asheville, North Carolina
