To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 19:37:03 -0800
From: Stephen Diercouff <sgd(-at-)tfm.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Battery tray installation 

> Hello, 
> 
> I have replaced the battery tray on my bus as well as
> the rear bottom corners of the bus. I guess my only
> suggestion is to make sure that ALL of the old tray is
> removed. I tried to leave a small "ridge" of of the
> old tray because it was still welded on the corner. I
> couldn't do it. I had to use the grinder to grind off

I have an air chisel and that cut through the old spot welds really nicely.
The old tray is completely gone.  It did a slight number on the rear corner
panel as well, but that had already been damaged and, i just discovered,
bondoed up. I really hate bondo. I'm thinking about just getting a new
corner panel and welding in the bit below the side marker light.
That would make installing the battery tray easier, and would elminate
the bondo. I'm not good at butt welding thin sheet metal though, so I'm
not sure about tackling that job in such a visible place.
 
> I found it difficult to maneuver the tray into
> position as well. I had to make some slits in a few
> places and I had to grind some places down to get the
> tray to set in place. It is doable. Good Luck!

I've already enlarged one slit and made one new one. Perhaps I'll do a 
bit more. Those slits can always be repaired once it's in.
I figure the best way to install it is to do some "fake" spot welds
by punching holes through the flange and welding through the holes.
I have a sheet metal punch arriving tomorrow for that. 

Thanks for the encouragement. I'm sure I'll get it in eventually.
Sounds like there's no magic trick though.

--Stephen

--
Stephen Diercouff, tfm associates, Eugene Oregon          voice: +1 541 461 8928
Internet:  sgd(-at-)tfm.com                                      fax: +1 541 461 8929
Snail   :  P.O. Box 2086/Eugene OR 97402-0031 USA

They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.  -- Benjamin Franklin
