From: "Beckley, Matthew" <Matthew.Beckley(-at-)egg.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 12:29:30 -0000
Subject: New Engine

Hello

I have recently fitted a new engine and wondered if I could run something
past you

After doing only a few local miles the oil light flashed on, only for a
split second but it did come on.  I checked the Oil and it was halfway
between min and max so I toped it up.  After a week or so the light flashed
on again only for a split second.  I checked the oil and it was on the
maximum.   I decided to check the oil pressure switch as when I turned the
ignition on sometimes the oil light came on and sometimes it didn't,
according to my VW book this should always come on and if not there is a
problem with the switch.  I waited until the light didn't came on and then
got out and took the wire off the switch and grounded it against the
cylinder head.  The oil light immediately came on, which I believe confirms
my thoughts that it is merely the switch that is at fault.

The only other thing is that on start up it occasionally blows some oil, it
does this at no other time and I am presuming this is because the pistons
are flat the oil does not drain away?

I'd be grateful if someone would advise if they think I am right on the
above or if they think I should be demanding a replacement engine from VEGE?

Thanks

Matt

U.K




This private and confidential e-mail has been sent to you by Egg.
The Egg group of companies includes Egg Banking plc
(registered no. 2999842), Egg Financial Products Ltd (registered
no. 3319027) and Egg Investments Ltd (registered no. 3403963) which
carries out investment business on behalf of Egg and is regulated
by the Financial Services Authority.  
Registered in England and Wales. Registered offices: 1 Waterhouse Square,
138-142 Holborn, London EC1N 2NA.
If you are not the intended recipient of this e-mail and have
received it in error, please notify the sender by replying with
'received in error' as the subject and then delete it from your
mailbox.
