Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 11:30:29 -0500 (EST)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:Lack of Confidence in Van

> John wrote: "Anyone have tremendous mileage on a type 4 without any valve
> seat failure?

I only have a 106K on my engine - the last 20K from me in the past year. I've
never been left stranded on the side of the road. I drive at 70-75MPH on the
highway and make quarterly trips to Florida (650 miles each way) and bi-weekly
trips to Atlanta (120 miles each way). '74 is my daily driver. I probably
abuse her - but I've inherited my father's (knocking on wood) ability to juice
an engine along...

> Anyone ever drive the van very far after dropping the valve seat? :-)

Haven't done a 2000+ mile trip yet - so maybe I haven't really encountered
this issue. As far as dropping things in the engine go, my Father's hubris did
lead to an engine teardown at Xmas because he dropped the distributor drive
dog spring into an oil galley hole.

> Is the failure really inevitable?

All sorts of failures are inevitible on these engines. The valve seat problem
is well known - but doesn't really seem to be a problem with engines with less
than 100K on them. If you are concerned with being stranded on the side of the
road, you should address all known issues of the engine. Fortunately, the age
and proliferation of these engines has brought pretty much all issues to the
surface. In addition to replacing the stock heads with heads than address this
issue, I'd recommend pulling out all oil galley plugs and replacing them with
brass threaded plugs. A dropped valve at 75mph might make it a struggle to get
home - a blown oil galley plug at 75mph will dump all your oil instantly and
likely seize the engine.

But this is the stuff that makes AIRS so wonderful! If you get stuck on the
side of the road, there are folks out there willing to at least join you for a
cup of coffee while you figure out what to do (assuming you don't just jump in
together and fix it!).

-Eric
