Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 08:40:29 -0800
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: Jon DeVos <hippygarden(-at-)comcast.net>
Cc: type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] engine problems

Jon DeVos wrote:

> If you recall we started that heated head gasket strand about our '78 
> bus.  We had the head gasket replaced but then the bus ran terribly. 
> Our regular mechanic says that when we had the head gasket done it 
> caused the compression to go up which caused it to suck in a valve 
> seat. So we have a bad valve on the number one cylinder.  His solution 
> is to get a rebuilt engine, the thinking being along the line that if 
> we replace any more parts it will just cause other parts to go bad.

I don't know how good new parts can cause existing parts to go bad 
unless they are installed incorrectly. I missed your original post. Did 
the same mechanic do the head gasket? If so I would find a new mechanic 
or start doing work yourself. If not, I would still start doing work 
yourself, as I question this mechanics abilities. It is the only way to 
be sure of the quality unless you go with one of the really reputible 
mechanic$ on the list. ;)

>   We can not afford a new engine so I am considering dropping the 
> engine myself and and slapping a new or used cylinder head on to keep 
> it going.  Any advise?  Does anyone have a good cylinder head?

How was compression before all of this, and how many miles on the 
engine? If it was good and millage was not too high, then I would go the 
route you are talking about, but I would do one of two things. 1) 
Replace both heads with heads that have the same volume. 2) Pull both 
heads. CC the good head, and make sure that the new/rebuilt head has the 
same volume. If not machine the new/rebuilt head until it is the same.

While you are in there I would check the deck height and do the math to 
figure your compression ratio, so you know that you are putting it back 
together with a compression ratio appropriate for the witches brew we 
call gas these days. Gasket no gasket is up to you, but if you include 
one make sure to figure it into the compression ratio.

If compression was lousy before all of this, or the millage is really 
high on this engine then I would consider going the rebuild way, since 
there is no sense in throwing good money after bad. If you do, consider 
rebuilding your existing engine yourself. You will spend less money, 
learn a lot, and will be sure of the craftsmanship. I believe a novice 
with good manuals and advice taking lots of care, can do as good, if not 
better rebuild than a vast majority of mechanics who take less time and 
care and just slap something together. If you do go the way of 
purchasing a rebuild be sure to do so from a reputable vendor who has a 
track record of standing behind their engines. The extra money spent for 
a quality rebuild from a reputable vendor is well worth the dough in 
terms of piece of mind and longevity.

Good luck,
-Nick
'77 Riviera
'71 Project
