From: jbrush(-at-)aros.net
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 10:17:04 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Thanks, Re:Lack of Confidence in Van,

To all who replied pmail or here in the group, I appreciate you taking the
time to talk to me about this topic.

I was glad to hear from people who have not ever had a dropped valve seat,
its nice to know that it is probably not the expected norm, but rather the
result of driving and maintenance habits. I think my van has been well
cared for, and I have been loathe to even run it much faster than the
occasional 70mph. The comments about running it long and hard, and then
shutting it off might make me think about letting it idle till it cools
down after a long run. 

It also helps to know that there is a good chance I could drive the van
with the valve seat problem, even tho it would probably not be the first
choice, it still beats being stuck in the middle of nowhere with my
children, and having no options. Ever notice how the places where you
would most likely break down or be stuck are places without cell phone
coverage? :-) They ought to do something about that......

I can probably deal with most  of the problems that can, and do, occur,
and I carry the books, parts, and tools I hope would be sufficient to get
me by. I suppose it is just a phase I am going through being overly
concerned. I never used to be that way, but perhaps other circumstances
make potential problems seem even bigger in scope than they really should
be. Time was that I would just go, as I enjoy the van so much, that no
matter what, the worst case was still cheaper than buying another vehicle
and suffering with a new set of problems.

Certainly, we VW'ers are on our own "out there" as there are precious few
mechanics who would even care to try and help :-)

With what I have been told here, I think its time to fight the phobia and
hit the road this weekend! 

Normally, I would reply to everyone and thank them one on one, but so many
offered advice, that I would rather be out driving the van than sending
all those emails. I hope you all understand :-)

Much obliged. I hope to be back with questions or comments, but hopefully,
no big  problems <g>

Regards from Utah,

John
