From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 14:06:36 -0500
Subject: NEW TO THE LIST!

Hey guys,



            I'm just about to take ownership of a 1973 Volkswagen Bus. I
don't really know ANYTHING about Volkswagens... yet. Basically, my fiancie
REALLY likes Volkswagens. I can't say that I completely share her interest
(hehe), but I am a car guy. In hopes of getting her to understand my hobby a
little bit better I decided to buy her this 1973 Volkswagen Van. She saw the
van for the first time on Sunday and absolutely fell in love with it. "Oh
it's soo cute.. blah blah blah..". Right now she's driving a 2002 Jetta 1.8T
she just bought... heh.



In any case... this is the current condition of the car:

1)       The car's body is absolutely IMMACULATE. The exterior apparently
had a little bit of rust around the dew strips, but that was patched with
metal and fiberglass. The car was painted about 3 years ago. It has a BRAND
new paint job. Light blue over the majority of the exterior, and a white
top. Even though it was painted 3 years ago, it's been garaged the entire
time.. hasn't seen daylight but 2-3 days in the past 3 years.

2)       It has a BRAND new motor. Well.. rebuilt. The seller told me that
the engine is a 1.8. He said it has less than 20 hours on it.

3)       The car is coming with pretty much all of the necessary pieces,
except.. the interior is COMPLETELY gutted. There are no interior panels, no
seats, nothing. We do have the front seats, but they are trashed and
obviously need reupholstering.





Basically, the owner loved the car, and dumped tons of money into it, but he
doesn't have the time or space now to work on it and has to move out of his
brothers house. So he's selling the car for cheap, and I was only too happy
to help him out. More than likely, my soon to be wife will want to keep this
car for the rest of her life.... So while I'm putting it back together I'd
like to do things right.



The one thing that worried me is.. he said the motor's been sitting for
about 3 years without having been started (even though it's a freshly
rebuilt motor). Should I remove the head? The seller never squirted oil into
the cyls before he let it sit. I'm afraid that there could potentially be
rust along the cyl walls that would destroy the brand new rings. Do I need
to worry about this? Should I remove the engine clean it up and re-install
it? He said he left the motor with the normal amount of oil.\







Any help that anyone could give me, or advice, or anything I should look out
for when putting this thing back together.. I'd really appreciate!!





Thanks!!!



Todd Jaspers,

----------------------------

1997 Pontiac GrandAm SE

1987 Pontiac Fiero SE / V6

1984 Pontiac Fiero 2m4 SE / WS6

1981 Pontiac TransAm WS6
