From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Mar 2003 11:35:29 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:Lack of Confidence in Van

Well, now I have to chime in.
I have enough confidence in these buses, that we took one T2 with a
freshly-rebuilt turnkey engine, tools, jackstands, floorjack and camping
gear (LOADED) all the way up from Los Angeles to Couer d'Alene, Idaho to
rescue another nice bus I found on eBay. We changed out the bad engine right
in the lot, split up the gear between the two busses, and caravanned back,
camping in Yellowstone and KOAs, and hitting Las Vegas back along the way.
In Yellowstone, I stopped along the highway to look at bison that were
grazing on the roadside, and there were bison directly on either side of the
new bus. LOL. It was an excellent adventure, and God bless him, my
crazy-as-me husband was game for it. We'd do it again!
By the way, we took the old engine back with us for purposes of diagnosis
and as a possible rebuilt candidate. We found that it had a broken crank,
but this was because one ass apparently worked on it, then another one drove
it into the ground. Can you believe that BOTH oil pressure valves were
totally MISSING in this engine? Gee! I wonder why it lost oil pressure and
failed? I found a reciept in the glove box for a rebuild done by a TRACTOR
REPAIR company!!!! That is the only thing bad about these buses now, is a
relative dearth of competent mechanics to work on them. They are now
relegated to the care of people who love them and are willing to learn to
work on them...
But that's not a bad thing, is it? Better than the new vehicles that you
cannot work on, and where you are much at the mercy of the manufacturers.
I might add that our main bus ('71) is a daily driver that was taken out of
mothballs where it had been for 16 long years. We depend on it, and it makes
a good long haul every day, about 60 miles round trip. For sake of
expediency, we did buy a new Mexican engine for it almost two years ago, and
it still purrs like a kitten. Hubby just replaced a noisy blown exhaust head
gasket on it, and that is all of any serious repair it has needed after all
this time and a 3,000 mile RT trip up north. It's also kind of neet to have
a vehicle that you really have a relationship with, kind of like a pet!
Well, that's how it is with us, but I did tell you we were crazy, right?
LOL.
