Date: Wed, 06 Mar 2002 00:14:39 -0700
From: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The Turtlebus Lives Again!!!

After a little over a year of rebuilding, fabricating, head scratching,
and parts hunting the turtlebus lives again! Still far from complete we
have reached the first milestone, The engine rebuild is finished. Primed
the oil galleys, connected the battery, five gallons in the clean tank,
checked the oil level again and turned the key. Nothing? Connected
timing light and asked my wife to hold it while I cranked the engine to
see if I had any power to the plugs. Turned the key and you should have
seen my wife jump! It fired right up. Must have needed to get all the
air out of the fuel lines.

Initial cold oil pressure was 65psi. Ran it about 2300 rpm for 20 mins.
Oil temp got up to 175 or 180. It's hard to read that gauge from the
back of the bus while holding the throttle open with a 3 foot wooden
dowel. Just before the end of this 20 min run I began to hear a lifter
(hydraulic) start tapping a little. Once the engine warmed up the oil
pressure slowly dropped to about 30psi +/-. Then held steady. All looks
good.

Shut it down, changed the oil and filter. Found only the slightest trace
of metallic glitter in the oil, a good thing. Readjusted valves while
warm, checked timing and dwell and turned the key. WHAT A SWEET SOUND!

Thanks so much to all of you who directly helped me out, Karl, Doktor
Tim, Missy Colombo, David Schwarze, Al Brase, Steve Dolan, John
Anderson, Jake Raby, George Lyle, Jim Arnott, Chris Darilek and Joey
Armsworthy. Sorry if I missed anyone.
And thanks to all of you who indirectly helped me with all of your great
questions and answers. You all are great! Couldn't Have done it as well
without you.

If there is anyone out there who is in need of a westy pop top and
luggage rack, I have one for you. No Charge! Just come get it in
Northern Arizona. Fiberglass is in good condition, canvas has a rip but
might be repairable if you are handy with a needle. If your interested
please contact me at tsdsisbsms(-at-)aol.com for arrangements.

Thanks again,
Tom

Perseverance and attention to detail pays off again

----------------------------------------------------
Sign Up for NetZero Platinum Today
Only $9.95 per month!
http://my.netzero.net/s/signup?r=platinum&refcd=PT97
