From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 31 Jan 2003 21:34:03 -0800
Subject: Just a great day todayl

  Today I got the phone call of a life time. The Buses by the Bridge story
got picked up by the AP, so thus the phone call I recieved today.
   Hi my name is S##!, I have this 1959 camper that I bought new, to bad I
read about the show after the fact, I would have loved to have been there,he
then proceeded to go an and tell me, it has a red and white tent, a electric
pump with a hose, a bunch of cups in a holder, a net in the back and a cot
that goes over the front seat. It also has a porta potty, stove and a
fridge. A ice box I asked? he answer was NO a FRIDGE, I stopped there. What
do you want to do with it I asked, Well my wife says GET RID OF IT, he said
OK, I'm to dam old to drive it anymore anyway and proceeded to tell me about
the square lid that opens up, the beautiful wood and the ugly plaid
upolstery.
  He then proceeded to tell me how he had the 36 hp engine rebuilt before he
parked it (over 20 years ago) in one of his barns and that it would need
tires and a paint job to be nice again and a little cleaning of the
interior. But he said you can start it with the crank as the battery went
dead a while ago and he likes to start it once in a while.
   So we couldn't strike a deal and I couldn't help not to let my excitement
out. He is going to call me next week as I was busy and really didn't have
time to talk (glad I just added extra phone lines), so we will see what
happens next week.
  I will post pics when I get them. Even if I don't get it whoever does will
have one nice OG Westy! He said that anyone who has ever seen it wanted to
buy it.

ronnie  what a Friday

ps. Never did ask if it had a rack or not

pps. On another note, I had my bus with one wheel trailer parked in front of
my shop today and a gentelmen walked up and said he had one of those one
wheel trailers and asked if I wanted to buy it, of course I said and he went
and picked it up and brought it to me, bumper mounted hitch and all, it's a
1962 Allstate, with no box. So Ricki Fu if you read this I will give you my
Harris trailer.
