From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 1 Feb 2003 12:39:51 EST
To: ttackman(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [VB] working buses

funny thing is, I used to have two SCs.  One day a guy stopped by, having 
seen the grey one out front, and asked if it was fs.   I said, no, but I have 
another i'd sell.

The other was a dark blue 60 (bastard 40 hp era) with deluxe trim ( i think), 
serious rocker rot, but very straight, a gorgeous nose and dove blue dash.  I 
got it from a friend who at the time was living with his mom who was annoyed 
with all the VWs around that didn't run.   He wanted to sell it to me, but I 
though it was too rusty.  Under threats from his Mom, he kept bugging me to 
take it off his hands.  the price came down, eventually we struck a trade for 
some wiring work on his 66 13 window.   I basically took it cause I didn't 
want it to go to the crusher.  No engine, the PPO had driven it around the 
farm, ??? something funky with the tranny.  Rusty floor in the back bed and 
under bed.  Throw things through it rusty.  It came with a really neat 
apron.... crank hole but stock tailpipe notch for later tailpipe.   (odd, but 
cool.  I kept the apron.)  But I ended up finding the grey truck and got that 
running instead.

Anyway, the guy who stopped by looked at it, liked it, and we made a trade... 
that 60 truck for a really nice stamped rear bumper.  The guy fixed the 
brakes, put in a big nut tranny and rebuildt engine and drove to Maine, 
returning with a truckload of parts he found on the way there and back.

Forget his name, but he lived in Tacoma.  Wonder if it's the same truck.

(The stamped bumper I traded away for some other parts.)
(later I sold the running rust free grey sc truck)
(still later I bought a rusty non running sc, which was going to get fixed up 
last summer)

In a message dated 1/26/2003 12:10:56 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
ttackman(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< 
 Oh yea......While your looking for that running SC.
 find one for me too...:)
 
  One who does use his for working, "Bridgewaters Body
 Shop" (shamles plug) one man shop,in tacoma wa, he
 hauls  his scrap to the recycler, next time I'm up
 that way I'll get a pic.
