To: incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org
Cc: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 2 Feb 2003 16:52:31 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Clutch Part numbers -- Tranny and Engine OUT- Parts

Here is what I've got:  This is about a 66 Splittie if you just want to
move on with something else.
#1) 9 spring 200 mm pressure plate that looks good, no bad wear no burns,
no broken springs.
#2) 200 mm Clutch disk that looks good, no visible burn, not into the
rivets, 7mm tight in thickness when checked with 7mm open wrench as
gauge. (I'll be replacing this)
#3) Flywheel that looks very good, no burns, cracks. The only flaw I
found was that the outer edge of the recess was full of TAR, actually
well cooked oil. Seems there are no drain holes and the flywheel has a
bevel that allows it to hold oil and burned off friction material.
#4) Gland nut looks good, has felt seal in place, pilot bearing rolls
free.
#5) The three rib tranny does not have a selves for the throw out
bearing, it just cradles in the actuating forks held by two small spring
clips.
#6) Throw out bearing looked great and appeared to be new.
#7) Flywheel was balanced, many drill holes you won't find in pure stock
flywheels.
#8) Clutch release levers are still plenty meaty and show even normal
wear.
Since I seriously think the slippage was caused by oil and the obvious
wear I'm going to take the whole engine to a local independent VW / Parts
/ Repair shop (In my 83 Westy rear floor already) and have them, replace
the gland nut, resurface the flywheel while it is off, replace the front
main seal. I'm going to replace a missing throw out bearing retaining
clip (I probably lost it). Also going to replace the tranny input shaft
seal while I'm in there.
Now my analysis of the situation: When the flywheel was resurfaced they
didn't take the cut where the pressure plate faces down on the flywheel.
The amount of oil or wear were not sufficient to make this clutch fail.
I've seen many clutches still fully engage with the friction material
near or almost into the rivets.
-------------------- Got to throw this in ----------------
I dreamed last night that the guy building the engine left the pins out
of the crankshaft that lock the flywheel.
Boy I sure didn't want to pull that engine.

Stan Wilder



Stan,
ABout the only place you can get one is from Ronnie, they cost a fortune.
Do
you have a tube thing that goes over the inputm shaft and secures with 3
bolts? I don't know if the 9 spring will work with a 3 rib...
I'd get that engine out, and see what's in there throwout wise now.
Good luck,
AL
