From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 3 Feb 2003 00:02:51 EST
To: johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca, VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Windows

61-63 passenger buses (and some earlier ones) came with laminated glass 
everywhere.  It has the 'sigla' logo on it.  laminated glass is easy to 
crack, and is subject to fogging.  I once broke a wing window by pushing it 
open and I didn't even push hard!!!!   The drivers side sliding glass in my 
61 has a crack near the bottom.   It is really hard to find good original 
sigla glass.   The nice thing is that the sekurit glass will fit just fine.  
The sekurit sliding glass has a different kind of latch that goes through a 
hole in th glass, the sigla glass has a metal track on the bottom that the 
latch screws to.   the felts in th doors are differnt.. just the lower one to 
give more room for the metal track.    So either leave it alone and fin good 
latches, or take the top half of the door off and replac ethe sigla glass 
with sekurit.  Sekurit glass should be easy to find from the list.   Sekurit 
glass is hard to break.   I once dopped an intake manifold from about 10+ 
feet up onto a top half of a front door with sekurit glass in it (by mistake) 
and the manifold bounced off, no damage.

For the pivoting windows you have to remove the glass from the frame 
(carefully!!!!!!!!!!!!!!)
and rivet a new latch on.  these can be bought at the usual VW parts houses.  
 then install glass withnew seal carefully not forgetting the nike swoosh 
installed in the correct orientation and side of glass.   wait a couple days, 
and trim excess seal off.

 In a message dated 2/2/2003 6:08:36 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca writes:

<< Hey Guys
 
 So it appears as though the latches do not go all they way through.  It
 looks like the windows I need to replace are the sliding part and the
 pivoting part, the fixed part is OK.  It looks like I also need new latches
 for the sliding part - or at least a piece of each latch and the latch on
 the pivoting windows could also be replaced.
 
 TIA
 
 jdd 60 std
