From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 3 Feb 2003 22:21:14 EST
To: bobgthomas(-at-)earthlink.net, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Clutch/trans problem

before worrying that your clutch is bad, lets just assume it's good and you 
need to finish the cable installation.   Get out your Muir Idiot Book.  If 
you don't have one, go get one.  Often an old VW comes with one, for good 
reason.

read the section on clutch cables.

did you greas ethe clutch cable when you installed it?   if not, take it out, 
and lube the cable up including the reads on the ends and install it.  I find 
it least sloppy to grease it as I put the cable in the sleeve.   

Right so you have the wingnut on the greasy threads.   tighten it up until 
you have a half inch play on the pedal.   you should not be able to move the 
arm on the tranny by hand when it is adjusted properly.  The initial slop is 
teh free play before teh cable pulls against the spring.  yes that spring is 
all you need for springs in this area.  Keep tightening.   every so often get 
out and feel the pedal... you'll see what I mean... i mean it's harder to 
press againt the clutch  than the mere spring.  sometimes a very small 
adjustable wrench to twist the wingnut's  ears helps.   I hope this makes 
sense and actually helps the issue

PS your bus loves grease. And valentine's day is soon!

In a message dated 2/3/2003 3:37:08 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
bobgthomas(-at-)earthlink.net writes:

<< First of all, thanks for all the previous advice.  I REALLY appreciate it.
 Here is the update I promised you...
 
 Well I replaced the clutch cable, with no apparent difference.  The pedal is
 soft, with the only spring action appearing to come from the return spring
 on the clutch lever attached to the trans.  This lever seems to travel
 forward easily, a distance of about 2", and then seems to to a stop.   Does
 that sound right?? Do I need to tighten the clutch cable further, until the
 movement of the lever really begins to resist?
