From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
To: <drben54(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 28 Oct 2004 14:04:05 -0700
Subject: [T2] CA smog: we're boned - Advice needed.

Hi Ben,

I absolutely feel for you and sympathize. I was born and raised in 
Sacramento and we live from check to check too. But it's especially a shame 
that your wife doesn't share your enthusiasm for the bus.

And I know that after you cross the causway you've got to get up the river 
bridge and compete with faster traffic. But one thing I can tell you is that 
one of the reasons we switched to VW air-cooled buses is that they are 
simpler, with less stuff to break down, and easier to maintain. When we got 
our first bay window bus, I marvelled that there was nothing under the hatch 
but a carb, a distributor, and a coil.

As much as the Car Talk click n clack people have bashed the VW bus, one 
thing they said many years ago has always stood out in my mind. They said 
they have no qualms at all about driving an older car as long as it is 
properly maintained. So if you keep your brake system maintained, your 
bearings and front end greased, your carb cleaned and ignition tuned, and 
properly take care of your motor, you have no reason to expect a breakdown.

One thing I have been learning since joining this and other forums is that 
while the VW engine is considered a weak point, you can get many, many 
reliable miles through proper driving and maintenance. Keeping your valves 
adjusted, not skimping on the quality of ignition parts and motor oil, 
keeping your engine tin sealed, and watching your head temperature should 
prevent a catastrophic failure.

I don't think you were smogged at the new standards in March because the 
bill was just passed. But you have a year and a half to watch the list and 
see how things shake out and what the consensus of the Type 2 community will 
be on how to deal with this new smog issue. Some ideas have already been 
posted here, such as adding a catalytic converter (does your 78 already have 
one?). We ourselves opted out of the issue by getting totally out of smog 
controlled vehicles. My last one was an 82 Westy, and when we made the jump 
it was to a 72 Bus and a 73 Westy (not to mention our 62 Panel and our 65 
Westy project vehicle).

It hasn't come up on this list yet because of the greater urgency of people 
in your situation who have post-75 vehicles, but don't feel confident our 
pre-76 vehicles are in the clear yet because I have heard there were going 
to be some provisions in the new law requiring these older vehicles to be 
registered or insured as collector or classic vehicles, and I know there are 
some issues with the insurance industry on what they will and won't insure.

I hope you can stick with your bus.

Best wishes,

John

---------------------
>  I am worried about my bus holding up in that
role.  (40 miles daily with the Sacramento Causeway).  And this smog
thing does, frankly freak me out.

I was smogged in March of this year.  Was I already tested for the
higher standards?

Thanks for letting me vent and I'd appreciate all helpful suggestions
on or off line.  I am a tinkerer, not a mechanic and I need some good
advice here.  Money is tight and we kind of live from check to check.

Thanks,

BEN
