Date: Thu, 28 Oct 2004 17:38:00 -0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] CA smog: another approach - magnets

Take any old HD apart and use the rare-earth magnets out of them. They are
so strong, that' they'll pinch your fingers if you put them between a set.
Price? Free, disassemble one of those old 80's 220meg HD you got lying about


Courtney 

 

-------Original Message-------

 

From: toobwiz

Date: 10/28/04 06:33:35

To: type2(-at-)type2.com

Subject: [T2] CA smog: another approach

 

I'm going to tell a story here that will leave many on the list saying

"hmmmm.....", but I'll tell it anyway because it represents a real and

workable method to reduce emissions.... In a word,. *magnets*.

 

About 10 yrs ago, I lived near Houston and TX was working on legislation

that would require testing all vehicles to strict standards. A friend of

mine had seen a demonstration suing magnets on the fuel and air systems

of cars to increase fuel economy and as a bonus, decrease emissions.

Wondering if this presented an opportunity for a good home business, he

bought 4 sets of the magnets and we went looking for test vehicles.

 

I had a 14-yr. old Bronco w/351 V8, and he had an older Pontiac sedan

with a V8. The Bronco got 12.5 mpg in my normal use and his car got a

bit better, but I don't remember exactly the fiigure, but it was near 14

mpg. Neither of these vehicles was used for long trips. We installed the

magnets as recommended right at the carb intake and at the

closest-to-the-carb non-metal location, just in front of the air intake

tube on the air cleaner. We also put magnets on the cooling systems, but

for rust control rather than economy/emissions. We also purchased a

certified tester which tested for CO2 and one other critical component,

which I don't remember at this time.

 

We tested each vehicle before installation, and recorded fuel mileage

for 3 tanks of gas prior to installation. We then ran 4 tanks of gas

through each vehicle with the magnets on and retested. I don't remember

all the figures, but for each vehicle, the emissions were cut *nearly in

half* and the fuel mileage increased 1.4 mpg for the Bronco and 1.6 mpg

for the Pontiac.

 

OK, this must be considered anecdotal, as the emissions law didn't go

through at that time, and the magnet sets were too expensive to be cost

effective on fuel cost decrease alone, so we didn't pursue the idea. But

we were satisfied that the magnets worked effectively, even though there

is little "science* to describe exactly how they worked. It is known

that the Germans were using magnets to increase fuel usage in the later

years of WW II, and documentation exists to support that claim.

 

I still have one of the boxes somewhere about the house if anyone is

interested in contacting the company from which we bought those magnets.

Howeve, i'm sure that a webseach would quickly come up with many

sources. There is a lot of hoopla about "mystery" alignments and fancy

elements in the magnets sold for this purpose, but that is simply to

"justify" the ridiculous prices. Although I didn't attempt to make my

own, I'm certain that common grade 5 ceramic magnets would work. It

takes 4 of them, little bars for the fuel line and larger ones for the

air intake. You'd have to experiment with orientation to see what works

best; you could use fuel consumption as the test parameter. If I were

confronted with an emissions problem such as the CA folks have, I'd get

some magnets in a heartbeat.

 

BTW, I should mention that the figures do not improve immediately. We

tracked fuel economy and emssions with each fillup and both got better

through the 3rd tankful, but did not increase on the 4th. We checked the

Bronco about a year later and both figures still held, but the Pontiac

got traded off during that year so we didn't have continuing history on

that one.
