Date: Thu, 28 Oct 2004 18:53:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: B Monk <wmonk(-at-)snet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 78 Westy and parts for sale

I need to sell my 78 Sage green Westy. It has less than 10,000 miles on a AVP motor. I replaced the motor and a whole bunch of parts at the same time. I replaced the fuel injectors,alternator,starter,hoses,temp sendor,and tune up stuff. I also pulled the gas tank had it coated inside and replaced the fuel tank sender at the same time. All the vent lines were replaced. I installed new ball joints,tie rods,steering box,drag link,steering stabilizer,and swing lever bushing/pin. New front shocks GR2's,new calipers, disks,pads, bearings,lines, and rubber hoses. New shifter bushings front to rear including the ones in the tube and regreased it.It has NOS VW heater boxes and muffler set up for 72-74 using all vw tin and correct parts. Great flapper boxes and new heater cables. Even though one of the new cables is already sticking. Gives of a ton of heat!!! Has 8 ply continental tires with less than 10,000 miles on them. New whiteline oversized swaybars front and rear.
Load leveler shocks in the rear. New  three window .poptop canvas last spring and the top was resprayed then also. Busboys gauge panel below radio with oil and head temp gauge. New auxlillary battery and main battery last spring. Fridge works great and stove works off disposable cylinders. Drivers seat has new horse hair pads and rest of interior is nice. Has both front and rear tables.Clutch kit installed with motor and flywheel resurfaced. Both clutch and throttle cable replaced.Has retractable seat belt in drivers position from Go Westy. Bus runs fantastic. Starts everytime and never so much as a hic up. I do think the afm may need cleaning replacing some time in the future. I had cleaned it and messed with the spring when I replaced the motor and it has worked fine. It's basically the only thing left in the engine compartment not replaced when the rebuild was put in. I also put a new German oil cooler in at the same time!! The body is where it needs a little tlc. It has some rust
 in the rockers,the lower rear and a little over the front tires. I have all German NOS panels to replace them with. For the rear I have two rear corners that go from the bottom all the way to the rain gutters including the vent. NOS VW metal for over the driver and pass wheel. Both are very complete parts and hard to come buy. I also have various rockers and sheet metel for the rear. It comes with a set of front German NOS VW door rubbers that have never been installed. These will fit unlike repros and have the correct triangle in the corner. A VW sliding door seal,rear hatch seal, and engine compartment seal. Various lenses,new german bearings,tune up parts,and some used parts. Might even have a refurbished dash clock to toss in. The bus can be used as is with no body work. Doesn't even look that bad. Doesn't leak water in anywhere and a bra covers up the surface rust on the nose. This bus could really be driven across the country right now without anything needed!!!I have all
 receipts to prove that I have spent more than twice what I am asking on parts alone. It is located in Mystic,CT and is available for viewing just about anytime. $5000.00 firm for everything.
(860)572-2006
Bill M
Mystic,CT
