From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 28 Oct 2004 19:38:58 -0700
Subject: Need help with possible engine purchase

Hi all,

A friend has offered me an early 70's 1700 porsche engine with the complete 
fuel injection setup included.

I was enthusiastic to give this a try for my 72 bus, whose motor is being 
pulled if you recall because of bad pilot bearing (78 motor/72 tranny issue) 
and severe oil leaks (seems like oil cooler) and occasional heavy blue smoke 
on early morning start-up.

A few reasons have made me enthusiastic to try this motor:

1) Previously the GEX motor was my spare and was planned to go into this 
bus, but it went into the Safare to replace the bad Porsche motor that I was 
asking for help with a few weeks ago.

2) It solves the year mismatch that caused my pilot bearing to fail in the 
first place.

3) Everyone on the list has been talking about how much better FI is than 
carburetion.

But when I got over there, the porsche FI system did not have the same 
components that I am familiar with on bus FI.

So I am starting to wonder if I am going to be able to figure out how to set 
this up and get it running in my bus. Any comments or suggestions?

The other issue is that it has a porsche flywheel. I could put a bus 
flywheel on it, or he has also offered me a porsche tranny to go with it 
(plus my tranny would always grind going into 3rd, and I don't know if this 
was related to the pilot bearing going bad or if the tranny is going bad). A 
recent buskatiers post led me to a link with instructions on adapting the 
tranny to a bus, which appears not to be a trivial task, but appears to have 
great rewards. Again, any feedback would be appreciated.

http://www.geocities.com/MotorCity/Speedway/1974/freewayflyer.htm

Oh... he also told me to expect more horsepower with this motor, but it has 
the 4 stud intakes, and others have told me this motor is not any different 
from a VW motor except for the oil spout.

Thanks,

John 
