From: "Gensler, Mike" <Mike.Gensler(-at-)CONCERT.COM>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'jkolak(-at-)byu.edu'" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
Date: Fri, 29 Oct 2004 11:05:56 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Need help with possible engine purchase

>The other issue is that it has a porsche flywheel. I could put a bus
>flywheel on it, or he has also offered me a porsche tranny to go with
>it (plus my tranny would always grind going into 3rd, and I don't 
>know if this was related to the pilot bearing going bad or if the 
>tranny is going bad). A recent buskatiers post led me to a link with 
>instructions on adapting the tranny to a bus, which appears not to be 
>a trivial task, but appears to have great rewards.

It always amuses me to see my 5-sp tranny conversion write-up posted various
places around the internet.  Some folks might be miffed about it being done
w/o their permission, but I consider it a complement :)

Anyway, down to business:  If the tranny is from a 914, don't plan on using
it in a bus.  Even if it's an older tail-shifter (as opposed to the 73+
side-shifter), it's got 2 major issues.  1:  The vent is in the WRONG
freaking place and after you flip the ring&pinion over (so it won't have 5
reverse and 1 forward gear!) it will SPRAY tranny fluid out of that vent.
Ask me how I know :)  2:  The 914's had the tallest gearing of any of the
901 trannies.  You might think that's good, but for use in a 3500 pound bus,
you really want shorter, closer gearing more like the pre-1970 911's or
912's.

As to the flywheel, you WILL need to replace it with the correct flywheel
for the tranny you are mating it to.  No big deal - they're easily
interchangeable.  Just don't forget to install a pilot bearing in the end of
the crank!

BTW, one of the biggest hassles of using a 914 motor in a bus is the oil
dipstick is hard to check and the oil filler can be difficult.  You can
aleviate these problems somewhat by cutting about 1.5 inchess off the
dipstick (use a pipe cutter to avoid getting shavings down the tube and into
your oil) and cutting the EXACT same amount off the end of the dipstick.
Flare the new opening and voila! a dipstick that is just short enough to
remove without hitting the top of the engine compartment.  As for the
filler, obtain a filler that has a removable cap (later 914's and, I
believe, VW 411's) so you don't have to remove that dang bale everytime you
add oil.

Mike g.
Busless in Colorado
