From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Oct 2004 11:39:22 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2]  - Advice needed. (long)

Well Chris, from your line of thinking below, I can see each generation is 
experiencing the same thing and drawing the same conclusions because your 
and my thinking are exactly the same on this. The only time I ever bought a 
new vehicle off the dealer lot was an 85 Vanagon. After 5 years of $300 a 
month, I said never again.

To save bandwidth and not quote your entire letter here, I'll just add my 
thoughts that I agree that having two old cars is essential if you are not 
going to have one new one. When one is down, you can drive the other. I also 
agree with your thoughts on an old bus (bus content! and it is Friday ;-) 
that is renewed is as good as a bus that was bought new back then. I'm just 
in the economic situation that I have to make do with what's available, call 
parts servicable if they aren't broke yet, so my vacation trips in our 
vintage buses are somewhat of an exercise in faith! But faith pays off.

2 years ago when we took off on our honeymoon trip in our 82 Westy that I 
had just barely put together in time, we made it to our wedding, but not one 
mile out on I-5 towards our reception I broke down. Not having time, I paid 
$300 for the tow that later turned out to be due to a $3 fuel filter! So, 
got home, changed the filter, but found the main seal was leaking like a 
sieve! So consult with the wife: pull the tranny to change the seal, or take 
a chance on the 80 Audi 5000 that was also just barely put together. Decided 
we lost enough time already, so took the Audi. Took us all the way to 
Vermont and back, but was running so bad on return that we barely had enough 
power to get over the freeway overpass when we got home. Limped to the house 
about 3 mph!

Similarly, last year, we wanted to try our 73 Westy for our coast tour 
vacation. But first we took 299 East up to Bieber to see in-laws, then were 
going to take 299 West to the coast and down Hwy 1 to LA for niece's 
wedding. Luckily my wife forgot a few things, so we decided we would go home 
first and pick them up. Good thing because our motor blew in Cottonwood, 
just about 15 miles from home. If we had stayed on 299 directly towards the 
coast, we probably would have been in Weaverville when it blew. As it was, 
we were close enough to limp home on 2 cylinders. Then my wife sewed 
curtains for our 72 non-camper bus, and we made the coast tour in that, 
which at that time, was again, an untried and unproven vehicle. It gave us 
some fits, too, along the way. When I got it, I was told it had brand new 
tires. Well, they were brand new in 1995! As we approached the first 
mountain top, the bus started to sway from side to side. I thought, oh no, 
axle or bearings. But, no, the tire cord broke and the tire was bulging! 
Plus the brand new autozone electric fuel pump went out! A lady stopped and 
told us that the restaurant around the next bend had a junkyard behind it, 
so we went up there, bought an electric fuel pump, and proceded towards the 
coast. The replacement fuel pump started cutting out! But we made it to 
town, bought a Facet pump at Napa, got a new tire at Union 76, and finished 
our coast tour! So faith has worked for us!

Anyway, back to your topic, I can see you and I have travelled the same road 
and come to the same conclusions. Keeping my buses running is CHEAP! Much 
better to have to do maintenance for $300 twice a year than to have to pay 
$300 per month every month. We chose VW because of the simplicity of 
design - less things to go wrong and easier to get to things, not like 
modern cars that are deliberately made hard to work on so you will feel 
forced to return to the dealer service dept.

Your concept of having a spare ready to install is something I'm just coming 
around to. I've had a spare, but ready is a different story. I've just read 
Muir the other night on having a distributor set up and ready to go for 
quick tune-ups, and after reading your post, the concept is sinking in. Yes, 
I agree with the part about having this all done when the weather's good and 
you're not under pressure with your primary transportation broken down. The 
hard part is finding the free time for this degree of preparedness, but I 
definitely agree that it is worth the effort and will pay off when the time 
of need arrives.

John

> My '99 Honda CR-V was costing me $430 a month for 5 years. Paid off now.
That's ALOT of bus parts! From my stand point your bus is pretty damn cheap 
to
operate! So get a beater parts runner. A scooter or Honda 650cc motorcycle
works pretty good... New is NOT always better. It is DEFINITELY more
expensive. May not break of course but it damn well better not at $400+ a
month! Funny how in '99 I declared that our '86 Accord was getting too
expensive to maintain when it cost a few hundred bucks a YEAR and the new 
one
cost $430 a MONTH. Haha, I won't make that mistake twice... Our bus cost me
NOTHING for the 2-3 years i drove it daily. It required shocks and oil 
changes
but aside from that... NOTHING! Tune it up and get the exhaust clean. Drive 
it
and be happy. YOU ARE NOT AUTOMATICALLY the worst thing on the road just
because your bus is old. It's this "gotta be late model or it's too
dangerous!" attitude. I love my ABS and admit the airbags are prob a good
idea, but my '99 CR-V and '97 VW Cabrio have not saved me from anything my 
Bus
would not have. Yes sudden accidents happen of course. The most important
safety system in the Bus is the nut behind the wheel.
