From: "78vwbus" <78vwbus(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Apr 2005 21:44:08 -0400
Subject: Announcing the first annual BREW BUS Volkswagen Campout and

Announcing the first annual BREW BUS Volkswagen Campout and Brewfest...

This gathering will be held at a campground in beautiful Rosman, North
Carolina (near Brevard) called The Lazy J. It will be June 24th through the
26th... The grounds are located 1 mile from Hwy 64 North on Hwy. 215...
(better directions to follow) This is a really nice campground that is very
secluded..... There is a very nice section of the north fork of the French
Broad River that runs right next to the camping areas.... There are water
activities such as tubing/kayaking available both onsite as well as rentals
from local outfitters so everyone can get wet on a hot day in a very clean
river.....

There will be electricity for those who want it (it should be pretty warm that
time of year) as well as a large open field that can fit quite a few buses
right in between the river and the electric spots... Plenty of sites
surrounding as well.

Primitive camping in the field will be very cheap (less than 10 dollars a
night) and electric sites are full hook-up sites with water, they are $20 and
you can have 4 people and 2 buses... If there are a few who speak up about
wanting electric sites (5 or so) then I will look into a group rate for those
sites..... The restrooms are VERY clean and there are hot showers in them.....

As this is a brewfest, we will have several styles of homebrew on tap... I
really encourage any and all homebrewers to bring along some of their favorite
brews to have and share.... To truly have a brewfest we need many varieties of
brew as there are many different styles to choose from and to celebrate, as
that is a brewfest...... We will be brewing up 10 to 20 gallons of a few types
of beer ONSITE this weekend and will be conducting a brewhaus workshop to
broaden the circle and get more folks into brewing.... Please join us... The
beer that gets made on this weekend will be ready for consumption just in time
for High Country Bus Festival 9 and all those involved (and more) will get to
reap the rewards at that campout....

I would also like to call out to all that would like to bring a favorite salsa
or dip that they like to make... You can never have too much tasty homemade
snack food and it would be great to have a chip and dip/salsa table that
showcased some of the creations of our talented Full Mooners out there, and
then eat 'em... The snacks that is.

There will be activities planned and these plans will be made available very
soon... Although there are plans in the works, I am always up for input, so if
anyone has any ideas or suggestions for activities, please let me know... Im
sure there will be group meals (other than dips) like breakfast burritos and I
could use ideas on some type of dinner?? We are really looking forward to this
and hope for a great turnout... The area is really stunning and the weather is
usually very pretty that time of year, we hope to have this campout every
year, so please come out and spend the weekend with us, the more the
merrier... See you there..

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of icon_biggrin.gif]

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of icon_mrgreen.gif]
