Date: Wed, 20 Apr 2005 23:03:09 -0500 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Cooling question

OK, brain fart -- I got the Rivi running and I'm supposed to head out to
the Texas VW Classic tomorrow. It's about 300 miles after fiddling with MS
Streets and Trips to keep me off the freeway as much as possible.

Now, the brain fart part. I've put a little over 100 miles on the bus since
I got it tagged Monday. I was noticing that my head temps would rise as I
approached 60 mph even on a flat stretch. Not dangerously high, the VDO
temp gauge hasn't gone over 450 (and we know how accurate those are -- I'm
just hoping they are all pessimistic rather than optimistic).

I started going over things that could cause the head temps to appear
higher than normal when traveling slower than the 1.967L engine is capable
of. Duhhh, I haven't put the heater control hardware on. And in the type4
the engine end of the heater boxes (as opposed to the cabin end) are always
fed directly by the engine fan, no way to just block of the outlets from
the shroud and let the fan feed the heads and not the heater boxes.

That means the faster I go, the faster air enters the open cabin end of the
heater boxes and "fights" the fan trying to blow the other way. Any
temporary fixes out there to help me drive at least 60 mph? I leave for the
show in about 7 or 8 hours and I need to use some of those for sleeping.
I'd rather not try to figure out the puzzle pieces to get the control
flappers and associated elbows in there -- especially since I'm already
about an hour from my house -- and my shower -- doing my last minute
loading at my "garage" next to where I work.

If anyone replies to this in the next couple of hours go ahead and CC the
reply to my pmail address as well as the list. The CC will get separated to
a folder where I'll notice it quicker, I have 100+ unread messages in Type2
right now because I've spent the last few days getting the Rivi on the road
(finally).

Thanks,

Gerald
