Date: Thu, 21 Apr 2005 09:05:47 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Jack Hattaway <jack(-at-)law.utah.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] sources for bushings and slider window rubber.

Jack,

Did mine about 2 years ago.  Rubber came from westcoast metric(with the 
groove for the "real" chrome trim).  Rubber fit well, except for the 
drivers side sliderr...which was the window from hell...burned 2 seals 
trying to get it in before I actually started measuring the 
opening....turns out that it was about 1/4" too **small** all the way 
around.  I nibbled it out, and the window went in just fine.  It was 
really a weird deal, but I finally got the window installed just fine.

As to the sliders, Karl gave me a part number for the sliders from a later
model vanagon...these can be made to work with just a little touchup from 
a dremel tool.  Recently I've noticed that I touched mine a little too 
much and now need to glue them to the frame to keep them in...maybe it's 
the colder weather tho since I originally fitted them on a hot day.

As to the little "fuzzy" seals, I don't have a reference for those as mine 
were in fair shape.  The rubber stops on the outside rear portion also 
came from the dealer(like the sliders).  IIRC, I had to trim the length on 
them just a little to match to originals.

Get the dealer to bring up the EKTA and order from it for a vanagon.

Did replacement shift rod supports about 3 years ago.  Unfortunately, I 
probably did not need to replace them, but tore one getting them out.  The 
replacements(from 2 different sources) are a poor fit.  You will need to 
open up the little holes they are supposed to snap into in the rod to get 
them to stay in place....and if you figure out a really "good" positive 
way to keep them lubed up while installing them, please let me(and others) 
know.  It is a total mystery to me how the factory did it....really need 
to go tour the factory in Brazil!

Cheers, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Wed, 20 Apr 2005, Jack Hattaway wrote:

> Recently, I've read reports of a list member who have purchased
> replacement shift rod supports and a another who found the rubber seal
> and perhaps rebuild kit for the slider windows (Don perhaps?). I'm
> looking for both items and would love a nudge in the direction of the
> correct vendor(s).
> 
> Thanks in advance,
> 
> jack
