From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 14 May 2004 14:41:11 -0500
Subject: VERY DANGEROUS TO SWITCH TO ELECTRIC FUEL PUMP

IT IS VERY DANGEROUS TO SWITCH TO AN ELECTRIC FUEL PUMP

If you switch from a mechanical fuel pump to an electrical fuel pump, you
may create a very dangerous condition unless you go to great lengths to
properly wire up the electrical fuel pump.

All factory manufactured cars with electric fuel pumps have fail safe
systems to shut off the electric fuel pump in case of a wreck.

If your vehicle originally had a mechanical fuel pump, then it does not have
the necessary fail safe wiring system for the electrical fuel pump. So you
must design and install a complicated fail safe electric fuel pump wiring
system.

The most dangerous thing you can do is to give the electric fuel pump
electricity from the hot wire on the coil. This is un-acceptable.
This is a common and really stupid and dangerous wiring method.

A mechanical fuel pump is inherently safer because it has built in fail safe
features. A mechanical fuel pump "intelligently knows" when to pump
gasoline. A mechanical fuel pump will only pump gasoline when the engine is
turning over or running. A mechanical fuel pump will stop pumping gas when
the engine quits running.

Imagine you get in a wreck, with a mechanical fuel pump:

the transmission stays in gear, the wheels quit turning , the engine stalls,
and the mechanical fuel pump stops pumping dangerous flammable gasoline all
over the place.

Imagine you get in a wreck with an improperly wired electric fuel pump.
e.g. wired up with power from the hot coil terminal:
If you get in a wreck, and you cannot turn off
the key switch because you are unconscious or incapacitated or too
discombobulated to think straight, then the electrical fuel pump will
continue to pump gasoline to the engine. In a wreck, the engine is often
drastically shifted out of its normal position which breaks the fuel lines
open. So in this case, the electric fuel pump will continue to pump
dangerous and flammable gasoline all over the place.

Just imagine how delighted your insurance company will be when they discover
this non-standard and stupid and dangerous wiring. Your insurance will deny
your medical claims and not pay one penny toward your burn care medical
costs

If you get in a wreck with someone and they are burned by all the gasoline
pumped all over them, because the non-standard and stupid and dangerously
wired up fuel pump continued to pump fuel; then just imagine how delighted
your victim's lawyer will be when they discover the non-standard and stupid
and dangerous wiring. The jury will hate you. You should hate yourself ,
too.

All factory manufactured cars with electric fuel pumps have a fail safe
systems to shut off the electric fuel pump in case of a wreck.

Some modern cars have an inertial get-in-a-wreck-safety-cutoff-switch forthe
electrical fuel pump. This is an inertial switch like locking seat
belts.

In my fuel injected ancient year 1978 VW Van there were two separate systems
to shut off the electric fuel pump. The electric fuel pump is powered
through a double relay. The double relay only gets electricity when the key
switch is in the <on> position; but that is not enough to give electric
power to the
fuel pump. When the engine is cranked over by the starter motor, the starter
motor circuit give electricity to the <trigger> input to the relay to allow
the relay to power the electric fuel pump. When you let go of the key and
the starter motor is turned off, the starter solenoid <trigger> is no longer
turning on the relay and the fuel pump is turned off. However, if the engine
has been started, then the engine is sucking air and that moves the AFM flap
(part of ancient fuel injection measurement device). The running engine
sucking air moves the AFM flap; the moving AFM flap closes a switch that
<triggers> the fuel pump relay to turn on to power the electric fuel pump.
If you get in a wreck, the engine dies (hopefully) , the AFM flap switch
opens (breaks the circuit), the relay is turned off, and the fuel pump stops
pumping dangerous flammable gasoline. It would have been better if there
were also an inertial emergency wreck cut off switch.

If you aren't willing to spend some time adding a complicated fail safe
wiring system for the electric fuel pump, then do not install it. The
original equipment mechanical fuel pump is much safer and much more
reliable.

If you insist on using the non-standard electrical fuel pump, then you must
wire it to be failsafe with at least a couple of failsafe systems.

Use a couple of relays to power the
electric fuel pump. Put a fuse in all the lines carrying current in this
Rube Goldberg setup. For the first relay, you can probably run a trigger
wire from the starter solenoid just like in the VW example above. This will
only power the electric fuel pump when the starter motor is engaged. Then
use a second relay with an "intelligent" "running engine" relay trigger
input from
somewhere else. This must be an electrical signal that is only present when
the engine is actually running and not just when the key is turned on. Do
not use the key switch ignition coil voltage source that keeps
the electric fuel pump powered all the time. It is too dangerous for the
reasons listed above. Many modern alternators have an extra terminal that is
just a "voltage" terminal. This terminal will put out about 7 volts with
only the starter motor turning the engine. If you have the correct
automotive12 volt (14.4 volt) relay, then this 7 volts will NOT be enough to
trigger and latch the second relay. When the engine is running at idle and
above, this terminal puts out up to about 14.8 volts (if your voltage
regulator is working. ) So you can use this terminal to provide the trigger
input to turn on the second relay only when the engine is running. If you
get in a wreck, the engine will die (hopefully) and the alternator will
stopturning, and the relay will turn off, and the electric fuel pump will
stop pumping dangerous flammable gasoline all over the place.

or...

go back to the tried and true mechanical fuel pump. The mechanical fuel pump
is much more reliable and safer. Why bother will all that wiring.
