Date: Sat, 15 May 2004 08:00:06 -0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] OUCH $150 for a mechanical fuel pump, how about 

Old technology like our bugs and buses will still get you around after a
nuclear air burst too, as the magnetic pulse generated destroys microchips
and chips of all kinds. Points and condensors and coils would be unaffected.
(Of course what we might want to drive around for after such a horror is
another story).
Regards,
Courtney
 
 
"LIFE IS SHORT, PLAY HARD."
-------Original Message-------
 
From: Chris Slaymaker
Date: 05/15/04 04:27:51
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] OUCH $150 for a mechanical fuel pump, how about
electric?!?!?!?!?
 
I recently had a "catastrophic" failure of my lawn mower that set me
back considerable bucks.
 
I have a Snapper lawn mower with a Robin 6 HP engine.  This type of
engine used to have the Wisconsin brand (a very reputable American
manufacturer) until they were bought by a Japanese company that also
makes Subaru engines (I think you know where this is going).
 
Anyhow, now spark - no joy.  I had to buy a new ignition unit.  In the
old days, all I would have to do is pop the flywheel off and replace
the points and condenser, but NOOOOOO!  This ignition unit is an
assembly that includes a coil, two ICs, three transistors, a pigtail
for the kill switch, and a spark plug wire.
 
Price: $88.00.
 
I priced a comparable repair for my VW (which includes cap, rotor,
points, condenser, ignition wires and coil) for about $66.00.
 
I also needed and air filter:  $11.00.  This is a paper element doo-dad
no bigger than your fist.  Oil filters are $7.00.
 
It really makes me appreciate "old technology."  These days
considerable expense is added in the name of convenience (and in order
to line the pockets of multiple middle men).  To repair today's
equipment, you must buy an entire assembly consisting of several
components that, when taken separately, are much cheaper.  Often the
cost of assembly is measured in coins (think third world), but by the
time it makes it to the consumer....
 
Something fails?  You throw away the whole thing and buy a new one.
Current technology dictates that you don't repair it.  It's cheaper to
toss it out and buy this year's model (and hope that it lasts a little
longer).
 
Well, I'll get off my soap box.
 
Chris Slaymaker
1971 VW Westfalia
"What's your hurry?"

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of IMSTP.gif]
