Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Sat, 15 May 2004 18:05:42 -0700
To: Harry Hoffman <hhoffman(-at-)ip-solutions.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Help Please, I failed my emissions test

On May 14, 2004, at 2:25 PM, Harry Hoffman wrote:

> Hi All,
>
> I just failed my PA emissions test and am hoping for some guidance to 
> be able to
> pass it sometime in the next 30 days (it's free in that time period).
>
> The limit for CO in PA is 4.00, my reading was 11.92
> The limit for HC(ppm) in PA is 400, my reading was 738

Eek.

It's definitely possible to pass, with flying colors even.  Here are 
the results from my '76's last (and hopefully final :-) smog check:

CO = 0.32% (idle ... that's quite lean; these days it's at 1%, which is 
still a touch lean... next time I go into the shop, I'm going to have 
them reset it to 1.5%), 0.00% (2500 RPM)

HC(ppm) = 146 (idle), 69 (2500 RPM)

> So, where do I start. I'll change the spark plugs and wires... What 
> else can I do?

What you really need to do is a proper tune-up.  This is what I would 
do, in order,  if I were in your situation:

1. Replace / gap plugs, wires, rotor, cap, points, condenser.  Oops, 
according to a later message, you have a '79 California model... ok, 
forget points and condenser, because you have electronic ignition.  (I 
have a Pertronix electronic ignition in my '76, so I'd skip the points 
and condenser, too :-)

2. Make sure your coil is producing a nice spark; a weak spark can 
cause incomplete burn, resulting in crappy emissions.  Replace with 
proper new or good condition used coil if spark is too weak (I think 
the '79 with electronic ignition uses a special coil; cross your 
fingers that you don't have to replace it, though maybe it's the same 
as the coil used in later Vanagon models, and still available at the 
dealer ... my guess is that your coil is probably fine, but it never 
hurts to check).

3. Check your dwell... Well, you have electronic ignition in a '79 
California, so there's not really any way it can be wrong.  See if 
Bentley lists a spec for it and check it anyway, I guess.  Not sure 
what you can do about it if it's incorrect.

4. Verify all your vacuum lines are connected properly, and ensure no 
vacuum leaks.  Do this now, because a vacuum leak can affect idle 
speed, which affects the next step.

5. Adjust idle air bypass screw to get you to 900RPM (required for next 
step).

6. Set timing (I believe a '79 has a single vacuum distributor and 
should be timed to 7.5 BTDC, but again, double-check Bentley, or look 
on the sticker inside your engine compartment lid).

6.5. Re-adjust idle air bypass screw to get you back to 900RPM, if 
necessary (if you advance your timing, idle speed may increase some).  
Repeat steps 3 and 3.5 as necessary until you reach steady state :-)

7. Read the Bentley procedure for testing / adjusting the FI Air Flow 
Meter, adjust as necessary, and then use the idle mixture screw to get 
idle CO down to 1.5% - 2% (max allowed at idle in California is 2.5%, 
so I try to keep mine at the low end of that range).

Pretty much all of this you can do on your own for the cost of parts 
only; if you have all the parts on-hand, all steps except the last are 
probably a "lunch to supper" project, likely with enough time at the 
end to put away a cold one.  The annoying step is #7, which requires an 
exhaust gas analyzer, so you'll probably have to do that with your 
mechanic at the shop.  Don't run the engine too much before that last 
step if you think it's running rich, you don't want to foul up those 
new plugs.  If it's really stinky, you could lean it out a bit on your 
own before heading to the shop.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
