Cc: pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net (Kathy and Paul), durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com,
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Sat, 15 May 2004 18:54:33 -0700
To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Subject: Re: [T2] Re:Strange thoughts when bored at work...

On May 15, 2004, at 6:36 PM, Terry K wrote:

> Jason,
> Yor really not serious about the content of your posting--are you?
>
> What are most of all of the engine's of the world built out of?
>
> Cast Iron---Model T--on to current stuff--
> and all liquid cooled cast iron.
>
> Ambient Moisture??
> Where did this bizarre thought come from??

Ambient moisture is not a bizarre thought at all ... your 
weather-person reports it every night on the news, but they call it 
humidity.

Surely every VW owner has seen rusty cylinder fins.  I've seen rusty 
cylinders at swap meets, on my old engine when it was replaced, on 
Richard Atwell's engine, on my old Bug engine way back when, ... I 
could go on.  The moisture to cause all that rust has to come from 
somewhere.  I can attest that here in San Francisco, there's plenty of 
ambient moisture (in the form of fog, especially in the "summer").  
When I had my Bug back in Oregon, there was certainly no shortage of 
ambient moisture there, either (humid summers; I lived near the 
Willamette river... and, well, holy-crap-wet springs, autumns, and 
winters).

The liquid-cooled engines you speak of all had channels designed for 
carrying coolant.  The air-cooled engine does not; if rust builds up in 
those fins, the cooling efficiency of those fins is sure to decrease.

Besides, running coolant (not necessarily pure h2o, though I would 
think that the h2o used to make coolant is distilled first, and I never 
ever ever put non-distilled water in any liquid cooled car I owned) 
through an engine certainly produces rust ... just look at the liquid 
under the radiator cap of any car more than 10 years old.  I can only 
imagine what misting water (probably not distilled, thus likely to have 
some salts in it) over an air-cooled engine's cylinders would do over 
time.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
