Date: Sat, 15 May 2004 23:09:37 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: stevo <stevo(-at-)efn.org>
Cc: Mike Dwyer <mldwyer(-at-)adelphia.net>
Subject: leavin', no jet plane

taking a 75 westy out on a cross country for some extended homeskewling
hours with three children. anybody want to store my bus with me for an
evening and dwell, pmail. your response may determine my route. please, no
interstates. country corn field is good.  anything good. canadians way
okay. gas prices - oooph, can i get a gov't rebate ...no child left behind?
fitting the bit, leaving in seven. or eight days.

sure hate to leave my valley. but the road has been good. first stop is
reno. my great concern is will the lists will be okay without me. in other
words yee hah. in search of clean swimming holes, drive-ins w/pony rides,
and a big party in little rock june 5th.
will be seeing you outer banks via lexington, n'carolina bbq, ferries and
drive-ins, canyons and waterfalls. nyc. dear old mom on the south jersey
beach. near philly chesse. southern u tah, durango, and taos. stillwater,
minnesota. that place in idaho. sounds like a lot to expect from a bus i
worked on...

a NOS listee is house sitting. but wait until i get back if you're eugene
bound, esp for country fair. all vw - family encouraged. its a bigger party
this year...two houses. parking, camping, free.

bus content - i helped a friend remove his first coolantboxer in my
driveway today.  he's going tiico. antifreeze, well, more than i care to
admit to, but not so much it hurt. two half days of full days with hawks
beer [roseburg, or] made for splendid caboom afternoons. and wow i finally
moved a bus nose out of my front yard. what will the neighbors think.
o'list, these are the good old days.
p.p.s. the other day i found there was not a woodruff key in the upper
front [fif] half of my upper pulley [68 doka]. another used bus item
learned the hard way. thank heavens for spares.
3xps... jj cale is touring. austin texas or athens georgia look good to me,
whose ticketed? as always your extras are always, always welcomed. always

thanks mike for everything you did. all of your goodness multiplied
exponentially. pass back on the rebound.  - steve
