Date: Mon, 08 Jul 2002 15:15:41 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Name that mechanical failure #1

Just got back from the road trip from Texas to Wisconsin and back in the 
bus.  All told, it was 2,600 miles.  It was a good trip and no tow trucks 
were involved, but my tired engine did give me a few suprises along the 
way.  I thought I would describe the symptoms and let the experts out there 
test their mettle.  Here is the first failure:

The bus had run fine since the beginning of the trip.  There was a 5-10mph 
tailwind nearly the whole way thus far so I was running a bit faster than 
normal, 60-65mph on average.  In Bloomington, IL we stopped at a gas 
station and Bonnie ran in to get a soda.  While I was sitting in the 
parking lot with the bus idling, it began to miss severely.  Felt like two 
cylinders had shut off.  When I gave it some gas in neutral, the revs came 
up and it felt like all four cylinders were firing again, but after 
settling down to an idle it began to stumble again.  Bonnie returned and I 
decided to go up the road just a bit to see how the engine reacted under 
load.  Unfortunately as I was pulling out into the street the engine died 
completely and wouldn't restart.  It would crank, catch for a second and 
then die.  Repeated this several times.  Here are some facts which might be 
useful:

We had *just* filled up with gas so the tank was completely full.
Gas was 89 octane, 10% ethanol instead of the regular stuff.
Weather was very warm (90 degrees) and humid
Dellorto DRLA 40 dual carburators with freshly oiled filters
Two inline fuel filters, the little plastic ones
Holley adjustable fuel pressure regulator set to 1psi
Newer Brazilian mechanical fuel pump from Bus Depot (maybe 2 yrs old)
Never have had a problem with rust or other fuel contaminate in the past.
New Bosch plug wires
Bosch platinum plugs
Stock points ignition
Stock dizzy with retard disconnected, set to 8 degrees BTDC
Dwell at 48 degrees
15W50 Mobil 1 synthetic oil running at about 220-230 degrees

That's all I can think of, please send questions/guesses to me directly, 
NOT to the LIST :-) and I will post a summary later today.

Thanks,

-David

