Date: Mon, 08 Jul 2002 16:02:40 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Name that mechanical failure #2

Installment #2, Here is the second failure:

Driving North into Wisconsin, the engine started to surge and buck a 
little.  I pulled over and found that it would idle at a normal rpm, but 
with very slight misfire/popping noises.  While driving, it was most 
noticeable at very low and very high rpm.  At very low rpm (say, below 
1500) if I stepped on the gas in gear it would buck violently.  At very 
high rpm (above 4500) the tach needle would shoot up way high and dance 
around.  At freeway cruise though, the problem varied from not at all 
noticeable to barely noticeable.  Since we were relatively close to our 
destination (with a driveway, shade, and a shower) and the problem was not 
too bad, I decided to push on.  We made it to Sister Bay, WI and parked the 
bus.  The next morning I started it and drove around the block a few 
times.  When the engine was cold, the bucking/surging was so bad that I 
could barely drive it, but as the bus warmed up the symptoms would get 
weaker and weaker until, when fully warmed up I could again barely notice 
anything was wrong, just a light, occasional surging.  At idle, the 
symptoms never changed - cold or hot, it idled normally with just a hint of 
misfire/popping.

Gas was 87 octane Wisconsin regular
Weather was warm (85 degrees) and humid
Dellorto DRLA 40 dual carburators with freshly oiled filters
Two inline fuel filters, the little plastic ones
Holley adjustable fuel pressure regulator set to 1psi
Newer Brazilian mechanical fuel pump from Bus Depot (maybe 2 yrs old)
Never have had a problem with rust or other fuel contaminate in the past.
New Bosch plug wires
Bosch platinum plugs
Stock points ignition
Stock dizzy with retard disconnected, set to 8 degrees BTDC
Dwell unknown (had adjusted points trying to fix failure #1 and didn't 
bring my meter)
15W50 Mobil 1 synthetic oil running at about 220 degrees
Battery voltage okay
Hydraulic lifters
No ECU, it's a '73 bus

Please send questions/guesses to me directly, NOT to the LIST :-) and I 
will post a summary later today.

Thanks,

-David

