Date: Fri, 12 Mar 2004 07:15:55 -0500 (EST)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Hooper <hooper(-at-)telkomsa.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] FLAT SPOT- SOUTH AFRICAN CONTACTS

On Fri, 12 Mar 2004, Hooper wrote:

> I'm new to T2, totally green and not a mechanic but ok with my hands. Have a
> burnt orange 1970 T2 1600 twin port and reconditioned the engine, carb &
> distributor but it still has a flat spot at low revs. When you  pull off or
> change up a gear, the engine dies and power only picks up once the revs rise
> again. Sometimes backing off the accelerator helps, other times putting foot
> helps, sometimes even pumping the accelerator seems to help a bit.  All the
> 'experts' in Cape Town accuse each other, its the engine or the carb but no
> one seems to know.   Both the Carb and Distributor have been swapped to test
> but the problem persists, sometimes slightly better but never consistent.
> Any ideas???.

I have four suggestions for where the problem may lie.  First, is your
distributor a vacuum or mechanical advance model? The hesitation you
describe is classic for the mechanical advance (009) distributors.
Replacing one 009 with a different 009 will not cure the problem.  Try a
vacuum advance distributor and see if that does not help.

Second, a faulty accelerator pump can cause symptoms like this although
your description that pumping the gas pedal helps would indicate that
yours is working.

Third, a piece of mung blocking the idle circuit in the carb can cause
these sorts of symptoms.  Does adjusting the idle mixture screw have any
effect on idle?  If not then you may suspect this is at least part of your
problem.

Lastly, problems at low RPMs that disappear at higher RPMs are often
linked to vacuum problems.  On dual-port engines if you have a leak in the
boots between the center section and the ends these sorts of symptoms can
occur.

> Also do you have a list for South Africa or any good contacts in Cape Town
> for T2 parts, clubs, nice T2 people to know.

Alas, no.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
