Date: Sat, 13 Mar 2004 09:31:22 -0800 (PST)
From: Duncan Newberry <starkmojo(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: valve cover gaskets and timing.

The older I get, the more parts seem to end up in my
have to have on hand list. Maybe valve cover gaskets
should have been there for awhile, but I have never
had a critical failure of a valve cover gasket before.


Thursday I went to pick up the stuff from Brandy, and
I wanted to do  valve inspection before taking off for
Olympia WA. because the car had sat all winter until a
week ago, and I had put 150 miles on her. I had
replaced the VCG 1000 miles ago, so I figured they
would be fine. Did the valves, started the motor and
got the timing gun out, when I smelled OIL! so I
stopped the motor, looked under the car, and saw 4ozs
of 30wt on the ground. I figured that I got the cover
on wrong, so I waited twenty mintues for evetrything
to cool off, and then I pulled the valve cover off and
se set it, started the car up, no leaking. did the
points and timing and set off for OlyWA...

Halfway there (of course) the inside of the car starts
smelling strongly of oil. soI stop, check the oil (OK)
and look under the car. The heater box has oil on it
so I wipe it off. The engines not hot, and teh leak
doesnt seem major, so I drive to Oly and park the car.

The next day I took the Valve covers off and found
that both of them had cracked along the top. The only
thing I can think of is that because the car has been
sitting so much the tops must have dried out, and when
I removed the valvecovers they cracked, leading to a
delightful drive on I5 with the windows open.

While working on the car, Clara W dropped by, we
chatted for a bit. Its good to catch up with old
friends. 

while I was under there, checked the valves (I dont
know why, but it takes me ten minutes if none of them
need to be adjusted and I was under there and dirty
anyway.), no changes, and checked the timing/dwell.
and ther was a big change... my points were off a bit
(.014) and I had just checked them 120miles ago. I
assume that the distrubuter cam is to blame, so thats
on my parts list.

Drove home, no problems. 

Thats it for now.

Duncan
