Date: Mon, 15 Mar 2004 12:08:46 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: Extra Oil Cooler

Matthew & friends on the List:

No need to do drilling and tapping on a Type 4 case to add the oil
cooler, unless you're a real glutton for punishment ;-)  Use the
adaptors - I was advised NOT to use the "sandwich-style" on a bus
application and I heeded that advice.  The more I look at how the engine
cross-bar kicks up and over the heater boxes and muffler, it's not so
much a question of the fittings and hoses, as it would be a case of how
to get the wrenches in there to tighten them up.  I "think" they are
just fine for use on a Type 4 motor in a 914, where the cross-bar runs a
different way (lower and flatter), but using the Calibrated Eyeball Mk.
I, it just looks really tight on the bus application.  Others may chime
in differently; but that's my story and I'm sticking to it...  It might
work if the motor was being built from scratch, but if the motor is
already powering the bus, it could be problematic.

I used the usual remote spin-on filter adaptor, mounted the remote oil
filter bracket assembly to a fabricated bracket that bolts to the 4
tapped holes on the impeller housing.  Lines connect to the oil
thermostat, then to a 72 plate cooler, and once out of the cooler back
to the thermostat and all the way back to the spin-on filter adaptor...
The 72 plate was chosen on the highly scientific observation that the 48
plate didn't seem enough cooling, and the 96 plate seemed too much.
Goldilocks was called in to consult on the matter, and she concurred...
We figured that if the 72 plate wasn't up to the job, a fan could always
be added, but if we started off too big and overcooled the oil, the
money spent on the bigger cooler was money down the drain.  Placement of
the cooler itself is a matter of personal choice, and you'll likely get
lots of advice on where to place it.  What works for me, may not work
for thee...  I freely acknowledge that mine is not in the best place for
the end-all, be-all of cool oil, but I had other axes to grind in terms
of potential vandalism and/or damage from roadway debris - both of which
could cut a road trip short in a bad way.  If nothing else, it keeps the
oil at a more stable and consistent temperature when ambient
temperatures are considerable.  Oddly enough, that was part of the
master plan - stable oil temps under a wide variety of circumstances.
If you live in a cooler winter time environment (and maybe even if you
don't), do not fail to budget for the thermostat - you may consider it
to be an option if you live someplace where it's ALWAYS well over 100 F
24/7/365, and even then you may want to think about how well cold oil
lubricates, especially single weight oil.

The quality of the adaptor castings and the quality of the fittings may
be highly variable - it was necessary for me to use sealant conconctions
on several fittings that simply would not stay oil tight.  As others
have pointed out recently, it's very easy to crack something by
overtorquing a pipe threaded connection, but the liquid concoctions can
be applied wet and then allowed to set up and do their dirty work.  A
poorly machined brass fitting (I cannot repeat the COO, but the initials
are "Indo" and "Nesia") almost cost me the oil cooler itself (Hello Mr.
JB Weld!); between JB Weld, Permatex/Loctite PST, and good ol' Aviation
Permatex they're all holding tight to this day.  Joy!

HTH

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
