Date: Sun, 21 Sep 2003 22:22:43 -0400
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
To: The Bug Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Subject: The United Empire Loyalists Fall Colours Tour

Hi Volks,

Development  continues on the Fall Colours tour planned for October 4th 
and 5th in eastern Ontario, Canada. While my parents scouted the 
Kawartha Lakes arm of the route this afternoon with their Westy I was 
busy collecting maps and scouring the web for things to do and points 
of interest.

Jamie Rivers ran last year's Fall Tour, following the Niagara 
Escarpment from Rattlesnake point up to Collingwood. This year we are 
going to head into the United Empire Loyalist territory of eastern 
Ontario.

The leaves are only starting to think about turning, and since 
hurricane Isabelle turned out to be little more than a heavy rain I am 
pretty confident that two weeks from now the colours should be 
magnificent. We're planning a route to avoid 4-lane highways and keep 
us on 2-lane blacktop and well-maintained gravel at all times.

The tour will start off at the gates of Darlington Provincial Park, at 
9:00 AM Saturday October 4th.  For those who arrive early (or camp over 
at Darlington the night before) we'll probably get a pancake breakfast 
going to feed the crew. Once we gather up all the buses we'll head NE 
to the shore of Rice Lake near Bewdley, then veer SE towards Trenton 
and Quinte Island. Quinte island is the heartland of the United Empire 
Loyalists, and the area is rich with history and full of victorian 
architecture. The local artists of Quinte Island are having a Studio 
and Gallery Tour that weekend, so there will be lots to see. After 
exploring the island we'll head through Kingston and take the ferry out 
onto Wolfe Island. There's a nice campground out there with a great 
view of the Saint Lawrence river.  I will also get B&B and motel info 
soon for those who prefer not to camp out in October.

Sunday's festivities will begin at 8AM with Breakfast Burritos. At 10AM 
  we'll start back west towards Toronto, in a route TBA. I'm thinking it 
would be good to follow the Trent/Severn system, going North on 62 
through Madoc and picking up highway 7 west to Norwood before dropping 
south to Hastings. There's a bit of planning still to be done on this 
leg of the route but it is sure to be a good run.

If you're interested in coming along, please email me and let me know. 
Can someone please pass this along to the Vanagon List?

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**
1977 Sunroof Automatic
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
