From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 14:22:57 -0500 
Subject: RE: [T2] Oil temp sender/sump plate (excessively long

Hey all!

Jasan C. kicked off this whole mess by penning:

"It's come time for some gauges for the bus. I am planning on oil temp, oil
pressure, and cylinder head temp. I have been able to find everything
including, the NLA from VDO, oil pressure sender hose adapter so I don't
have to cut the tin. What I can't seem to find is the sump plate for the oil
temp sender. I don't want to have to drill and tap my current sump plate but
would rather find the one that I think came off of the 914's. Does anyone
have a source for these..."

Richard replied thusly:

"...Junkyard. It was part number 039 101 267 but it's NLA."

Amen to that - those plates are highly prized by those requiring one, and I
for one would like to find one or two.  "What's in yer junkboxes, Volks?"

The subject of the existence of the cut-out or lack thereof was also
discussed...  Generally speaking, it appears that most later bus hydraulic
cases lack the cut-out, though some appear to have the area chewed out.
Generally speaking, 914 cases and earlier bus T4 cases have the cut-out, and
the temp sender probe fits into them quite nicely...  Scott Lyons kicked in
a nice discourse about where to find the 14mm XZN on the non-hydraulic
cases.

In the same manner that Richard has a hydraulic case which appears to HAVE
the "chewed-out" well and Richard has been the proud possessor of his bus
since wooly mammoths roamed North America.  I am the proud possessor of a
'75 1.8L case which came into my Dad's furry mitts in maybe '78 or '79,
which LACKS the solid lifter relief valve.  So go figure - mysteries
abound...

Scott further reported that:

"...but don't worry because the 914 sender is the wrong one anyway, it is
400 degrees, there is no VDO oil temp gauge that is 400 degrees."

Very, very close, but not completely in there.  Certain 914 2.0L models that
did not have the triple gauge console used a fuel gauge that had an oil temp
gauge pasted into the area "normally" occupied by the E-brake warning light.
They come in 2 styles - the '73 chrome center doohickey, and the '74-up
non-chrome doohickey...  Pretty unusual as "most" 2.0L 914s came with the
console - I happen to have 4 of the gauges in my curious/useless parts
collection, 2 early and 2 late.  Furthermore, they come in 2 temp ranges - a
200C/400F (early I think) and a 170C/350ishF (late I think) range.  I've
"heard" that the console equipped 914s had similar equipage, therefore there
are at LEAST 2 different senders (and maybe 4 by some 'teener fans)...
Somewhere, somebody has reported that there IS a VDO 400F temp gauge - it's
meant for auto trannys - not sure there is an appropriately threaded metric
sender.

About the same time, Tommy piped in with:

"...FWIW, I've found the sump plate sender reads significantly cooler than
other senders on my type-1 engine. Other senders I've used:  dipstick sender
and pressure relief valve sender."

With all due respect Tommy and the other Type 1ees who responded (and by all
means no flames are intended), this discussion was WRT Type 4 motor oil
temps.  Even so, you've kind of got it back-*sswards on that T1 motor you
use to illustrate your example.  That pressure relief valve sender is in a
blind hole that's getting very little flow and is heavily influenced by the
case metal temps - BTDT when I had Type3s.  I also had a badly drilled T4
accessory plate cover (in a 914) that was extremely close, as in the nut was
touching the case - it read high, especially when climbing hills.  It made
me very nervous to watch it spike, then take forever to cool down, and had
me pulling hair because a similar motor (T4 motor in a T3) equipped with the
proper T4 sender plate did nothing of the sort on the same hills.  Same deal
with the temp sender screwed into the oil drain plug on the block of a T4
motor - it tends to read "fine" (as in stable) as you're cruising along, but
goes all wacky if climbing, accelerating, or sitting at idle.  The
unfortunate part is that it will make you waste time/resources trying to
hunt down a problem that doesn't really exactly exist.

At the end of the day, Paul pretty much nails it on the head:

"...I don't figure it matters what the thing reads as long as I know when it
is too hot by the gauge I am going to install."

Exactly!  Comparing what's acceptable to one guy or gal's T1 motor, to
someone else's T4 motor is asking for a heap of trouble.  Placement of the
sender is critical, as is a host of other variables.  Get the sender
somewhere where it's got a good bath or flow of oil, and then quit fretting
about the ABSOLUTE temperatures - i.e. X degrees is OK, but X+5 or X+10 is
going to make your motor BLOW.  There's too much of an acceptable RANGE of
temperatures, and if you start p**ping your pants about 5 or 10 degree (F or
C, it don't matter) variations, you're never going to get the car out of the
garage :-)  Use the oil temp gauge to spot the trends or ranges that are
acceptable for YOUR motor, in YOUR region, for YOUR style of driving.  And
by trends I mean something that cannot be explained by some geographic or
meteorological circumstance, something that says you better pull over and
start looking for a rag/bag/furry rodent s*cked into your impeller housing,
or checking your oil...

Under some circumstances, my new 2260cc T4 motor appears to run a bit warmer
and with more variable oil temps than my old 2055cc T4 motor, even though
it's got LN's Birals, the new heads were cleaned of casting flash, and I did
the oil squirter notches on the con-rod modification.  By the same token, I
have HAMMERED it HARD in 115F weather on 89 octane gas (8.3:1 CR, Web-Cam
91H), and there is not a peep/rattle/ping, so that tells me that the heads,
combustion chambers, and piston tops are running cooler due the modification
- the additional heat is being carried away by the oil, and handled by the
72 plate cooler.  In fact, having not gotten any "noises" out of the engine
compartment under all KINDS of circumstance, so I decided to wean the motor
onto 87 octane, since the slower burn (and additional cost) of 89 didn't
seem to be justified under the conditions.  There's been no change in
performance when you step on it, and I dare say it seems to idle and
accellerate BETTER on 87 than it did on 89.  It's all about a balancing act
anyway, so once again, the mysteries abound...

	YMMV.

PS - if anyone has an extra 914 temp sender plate (or 2) they don't need and
is burning holes in yer junkboxes, shoot me a p-mail, m'kay?

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org
