From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <candrajonathan(-at-)yahoo.com>
Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 21:03:10 -0500
Subject: won't start

Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 16:49:00 -0700 (PDT)
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Candra Cantrell <candrajonathan(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: '72 conversion needs help!
Message-ID: <20030904234900.51373.qmail(-at-)web21404.mail.yahoo.com>

won't start - no spark -

If it won't start, (but it cranks normally fast) then you check to see if it
has a good spark, if it has a good spark, you check to see if the fuel pump
is pumping fuel to the carb (not FI) . If you don't have spark, you stop
right there and fix the spark. It is possible for two systems to break down
at the same time, but that is rare.

To check the spark, first check to see if you have electricity at the coil
when the ignition key is in the <run> position. You test with a volt meter
to a good ground; or with a test light to a good ground and not across the
two small terminals on the coil.

If you have voltage with the key ignition switch in the <run> position, the
next most important thing to check is that you continue to have voltage at
the coil when the key-ignition-switch is turned to the <start> position. I
have seen a lot of key-ignition-switches fail and only give electricity to
the coil in the <run> position.

If you have electricity in the <run> and in the <start> position, and you
still don't have a spark, then you have to get your hands dirty and pop the
distributor cap and look at the points. I have had points break in every
conceivable manner: at idle, at full throttle merging into freeway traffic,
and even when the engine was running pefectly, but just switched off to get
fuel. I have also found engines that wouldn't start because the distributor
got loose and the timing changed. So also try to turn the distributor body,
it should not turn .

I know you just filled up with gasoline; so that is not your problem . I
just wanted to mention that you cannot trust the fuel gauge if it says
"full" .  If it won't start and you have a good spark, you have to actually
see that the fuel pump is pumping fuel to the carburetor. The easiest way is
to pull the fuel line going into the carb and using extreme caution not to
start a fire.

Please let the list know the steps you took to finally find the cause of the
not starting problem.
