Date: Thu, 4 Sep 2003 20:13:21 -0700
From: Jason R Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)shagadelic.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Dead coil?  Weird coincidence!

It seems like an awfully strange coincidence (re: "[T2] '72 conversion needs
help!"), but...

Tonight I set out to do part 1 of my multi-evening tune-up (since I only
have a couple of hours a night I can burn on the '76 Westy): check points.

So, I hook up my dwell meter's green clip to the - (distributor, green
wire) side of the coil, and the meter's black clip to a ground source
(bolt holding the coil clamp seemed like a convenient spot), and go start
up the Bus to see if it's at least in the ballpark.

Bus starts fine, runs for about 2 seconds, then dies as I'm walking back
around to the engine.

Attempt to start Bus again.  Does not start.

Disconnect dwell meter.

Attempt to start Bus again.  Does not start.  Not even a sputter.

Engine is turning over fine, so I make sure I'm not a total bonehead, and
give the Bus a nudge and listen for gas in the tank.  Slosh slosh.  Add 1.5
gallons for good measure.

Still does not start.

Hunt for blown fuses, don't find any.  Get out VOM, check voltage on the
+ side of the coil: 11.68.

Not even a sputter... spark problem?  Use Muir's procedure to check for
spark at the coil: disconnect coil from distributor, hold wire about 1/8''
away from ground source (same spot I used before when checking coil input
voltage, the coil clamp bolt), turn engine over with alternator nut, should
see spark when points open.  See nothing.  Hear nothing.  Feel nothing
(I started by holding the wire with a rag, but tried twice more holding
the wire with my bare fingers ... "just to be sure").

I suppose I could have picked a poor ground source, but the length of the
distributor input wire doesn't give me many options.  I suppose I could
also just have the technique wrong, too...

But, and this is what annoys me the most, the Bus ran great last night
after I fixed a vac leak.  And the ONLY thing I did today was hook up that
dwell meter...

Could I have frotzed the coil with the meter?  (Talk about feeling stupid
if that's the case... I mean, checking dwell is not exactly rocket science...)

Could my coil simply have been marginal anyway, and I happened to fail at
this lucky moment?  (Weird coincidence #2?)

Any other way I could check my coil, on the chance that my technique with
the Muir coil-spark-check was poor?

Thanks... I'd greatly appreciate any help... I need to be able to move
the thing by Tuesday (Bus is too tall, so I have to street-park it).
If anyone in the San Francisco area is willing to help me diagnose the
problem hands-on, the beer's on me.

-- 
        -- Jason R. Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)shagadelic.org>
