Date: Fri, 05 Sep 2003 10:18:31 -0600
From: Dave Cox <dc160106(-at-)selway.umt.edu>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 72 Engine Rebuild Questions & 78 Westy parts available

Hey I'm going to kill 2 birds with one stone here.  I have owned this bus
since 1994, taken it to Alaska & back a couple of times until a valve sucked
into the #1 cylinder.  I rebuilt it around 97 but inexperience in VW
knowledge led me to believe that the bearings could be re-used....I think we
know what that will get you.  Regardless determining what parts were
involved in this engine became quite a mystery b/c it had been rebuilt at
one point with the PO.  So now I am getting my engine rebuilt here recently
(work being done at NW Connecting Rod Seattle WA).  The short block is a
rebuilt 1700 cc, should be all stock specs, the heads are also done by NW
stock specs, now here are my questions.

1.  The distributor from my bad engine is too short for the new engine.
Even tightened down it isn't engaging into the dist. gear.  What type of
distributor should be stock & fit into a stock 1700 cc case or what info do
I need on the case to determine this answer.  Would this be a good time just
to switch to electronic ignition?

2.  Does anyone have a fair priced working thermostat that they would sell
or consider trades for parts from a 78 Westy?  I also need one air flap &
pin for the fan case/ heat exchanger connection.

3.  This is the Riviera conversion 72 so if anyone has some fairly detailed
wiring diagrams or pictures of what the stock wiring setup looked like in
the engine compartment it would be great.  If they have the setup that will
switch alternator current between batteries (not stock & I can't think of
what that unit is called at the moment) that would be better.

4.  I also am swapping all the rocker assemblies & push rods. Is there an
online resource where I can compare part #'s to make sure that these will
match up?  Should I replace push rods regardless?  They are used but have
fairly low mileage on them (40-50000 miles).  Again trades or $ if anyone
has these at reasonable prices.

5.  Should this engine have a fuel pressure regulator or was that the later
models?  The engine from the 78 westy (2 L) has one attached to the back
upper tin.

6.  I have almost completely stripped out a 78 westy & so basically most of
the mechanical (engine, trans) & large interior pieces are there.  There are
windows available as well as the entire top & canvas.  I am in grad school
in Montana (Missoula) but the westy is in Washington state.  If you are
looking for any particular pieces let me know but I will say I do not have
the capacity at this point to ship large items.  I want to get rid of this
stuff so I am not looking for top dollar.  I will be back in WA in late
November so shipping large items then would be a possibility.  You can reply
to the following address for part inquiries:

dc160106(-at-)selway.umt.edu
Thanks in advance


David Cox
Ph.D. Candidate, Toxicology
Center for Environmental Health Sciences
University of Montana
Skaggs Building 161
Missoula, Mt  59812
Phone: (406) 243-4579
Fax: (406) 243-2807
