Date: Sat, 6 Sep 2003 01:07:41 -0400 (EDT)
From: <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] electric fuel pump wiring

Jasan C. related:
>
> > I would suggest wiring your radio to a non switched/constant 12v source
> > under the dash.

scott lyons wrote:
> or another way to do it:
>
> use the power wire from the "key reminder" buzzer relay.
snip
> by the way, jamie rivers originally suggested this.


Hmmm,, I am going to claim oldtimers on this one,, I don't remember ...

What I have done for my radio circuit is use the ground in the key circuit
that the key buzzer uses to complete the circuit for another relay.

Using a standard 25 amp style bosch style single pole relay, run fused
always on power like fuse #7 to terminal 30 and to terminal 86, connect
terminal 85 to the key switch ground brown wire, and then connect your
accesories to terminal 87.

As soon as you put any key in the ignition, the relay gets it's ground,
the radio will come on.
I connect my CB radio and my FM radio this way.

This is reverse to most relay installations, in that you run power to the
coil all the time, and switch the ground using the ignition

It works the exact same as the aux heat fan in a 74 bus, where the lever
on the dash completes the relay coil circuit to ground.



Getting back to the subject line, you can use the blue wire from your
alternator to power a relay coil,, to control your fuel pump.
ONLY for carbed engines.
Float bowls are full of fuel, engine starts, alternator starts to build
voltage, when it reaches about 8 volts, the relay pulls in, the fuel pump
energizes
Anytime the engine stalls, the relay opens, the fuel pump quits,,, even if
the key is on, no power to the fuel pump

This is also the same as the aux heat fan in a 74 bus,, you can't turn the
fan on unless the alternator is putting out about 8 volts or more.


You can also use the same relay to join an aux battery to your starter
battery,, so they both charge when the blue wire is energized, as in when
the alternator is operating.

I use relay 431-951-253G

Hope that helps
