From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 11 Apr 2006 08:37:39 -0400
Subject: Found a Westy

Hi All, 

New member, and fairly new to air cooled VW's.  I'm an old hand at water
cooled, though.  Sorry for the long post. 

With 3 large dogs and frequent trips to Daytona (about 3 hours away), my
wife and I decided we needed a bigger vehicle than the Mini Cooper to
haul our dogs.  She hates the modern minivans, as do I.  So we began
shopping for a Eurovan.  Way too expensive.  Then we found a Westy.  

It's a '73, mostly solid, and seems to have 99.9% of the original sheet
metal on it.  There's only a few visible rust holes in it, at the back
and front corners, and underneath above the ribs in the cargo area.
(forgive me if I get the location/terminology wrong).  

What's right with it - 
  Starts and runs like a top.
  New brakes, rotors, and drums.  
  No odd motor/transmission noises (valves need adjusted, tho)
  New alternator
  New starter
  Freshly rebuilt carb
  Mostly solid body, looks like 99.9% original sheet metal & paint
  Interior is in pretty good shape (was there a stool that came with the
Westy?)
  Steers great, only slight pull to the right, a tad worse when braking.
  New canvas 
  Interior is in pretty good shape.  


What's not right with it, 
  No idea what mileage it has.  Odometer says 71K, but it isn't the
original Odo or engine/tranny in it.
  A rust hole at each corner at the bottom of the body
  Some rust holes in the pan in the cargo area
  Battery box is shot (though it comes with a new battery box pan!)
  Wiring under the dash is questionable.  Looks like a rookie repair.
  Heating system is not installed at all
  Windows need new rubber seals
  Windshield is going milky at the bottom
  Sheet metal along the bottom of the edge of the windshield is rotting
(I read that is a normal development)
  Lots of small dents and dings to be filled in

What's extra with it - 
  A 5x10 tandem axle, enclosed trailer that contains various spare parts
and a rebuild-able motor and transmission. 
  Boxes of parts, including countless nuts, bolts, washers.
  A box of gaskets, springs, and doodads. 
  Spare covers to go over the sliding door mechanisim (the current ones
are sound, but surface rusted and pitted)
  A new front bumper to replace the dented (not badly) one. 
  The original VW glovebox manual that came with the Westy (Bonus!)
 *Did the Westy come with a little ottoman/footstool?  This one has a
stool that the gentleman claims is OEM equipment.  

I realize that this is a 30-someodd year old vehicle, and as such it'll
need a fair amount of love.  

The gentleman is asking $3,500 for it with all the extras.  

Does that sound reasonable?
  
Thanks for your time!

Shad H.
