Date: Tue, 11 Apr 2006 08:18:44 -0600
From: Jon Stiles <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>, "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>, Access
Subject: Re: [T2] Yet Another Smog Story

Yup, here in Colorado emissions laws are different for each county. Many of
the rural counties don't require emissions tests. Metro Denver counties
require them because of the volume of traffic. I believe Don lives in
Arapahoe County which is square in the middle of Metro Denver.

You can test your vehicle at any Metro Denver emissions station, you just
have to register it in your own county.

I am becoming a certified expert since every used vehicle I have owned has
failed emissions. My 86 Toyota truck, 7 times (God rest it's soul), my Jeep
Wrangler (pre-EFI) 6 times, my 96 Nissan, Twice.

The only Used vehicle that passed was my 70 DC, but that was a pre 82 idle
emissions test only. The guy kept fiddling with the idle mixture screw and
high idle settings till it passed. It probably helped that he had a few VWs
in his repair yard!

Every two years when my Jeep has to be smogged, I have to take it to the
local 4WD shop and have them swap on 33" tires for a few hours. The
emissions centers don't allow my 35" rubber, but they do allow Hummer H2's
with 35" tires. Talk about a PITA!!! The Jeep always does a quick pass (LEV)
and gets 17mpg combined, much better than a stupid Hummer H2 that rates
12mpg combined...


Jon


On 4/11/06 7:56 AM, "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

Problem  is that in some states, like TN, different municipalities have
 different smog regs.  So they prevent you from registering in  other
counties 
 to get around them.  A lot of that was going on  here before they banned
it.  
 Chattanooga was going to lose a lot  of federal money unless they started
 emissions testing.  But then  TVA is burning coal by the metric megaton to
 keep the power on.   Cheers....KR
  
   
 "??? I thought cars are registered by states, not counties?  I can go to a
 DMV office anywhere in my state to take care anything"
 
 Bob
