Date: Wed, 12 Apr 2006 09:24:37 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] alignment/steering system hell

Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu> wrote:    

Chai,
IMHO, maybe sticking brake caliper (or plugged brake hose) is the cause of pulling to the right. I guess it could be screwy camber or funny tire too though.
   
  So should i just do the brakes then and see if i can get it out?  mason jar and get someone to pump?
   
  maybe that might clear it up...
  there is a squeal form that tire when i mash the brakes.. really bad squeal....?

Camber is part of alignment spec. I recently learned that many alignment guys don't know how to set camber on an old ball-joint VW. Many cars have non-adjustable camber. They didn't do mine on Monday either. pretty pathetic since this is what you pay for. 
   
  yeah i even told the guy that there were two adjustments on the top ball joints but he never messed with them... 
  so in other words the camber might be out?
  i want it done right....
  would his machine not show the camber out...?
  

As Tallman did, you could take them the manual and open to the page with the picture where it shows the eccentric bushing that sets the camber. For him, his camber was so far out it destroyed a brand new tire in 3000 miles. Funny, it was the same shop I took mine too, must have been a different tech. didn't hold their hand though.

Still looking for a decent shop.
   
  yeah good luck on that.... fare few and wide it seems... i looked for awhile and then got the people up the road supposedly good reputable shop and then once again some one gets paid and doesnt do the job that they should of done for the money,,,, whats wrong with people these days... is it just laziness or lack of care of just people taking peoples money....
   
  work to hard to keep throwing it away...
   
   
  thanks will....

Will A.
'70 Westy







                                                                 Driving down the road singing a song~!~
          ~ Heading towards the FuLLMoon~
