Date: Wed, 12 Apr 2006 13:28:14 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Will Anderson <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] alignment/steering system hell

Ok so i called shop back after reading all this from the list and btw thanks for all this...LOL
   
  so i asked about the camber adjustment and he said that the machine said it was ok and machine reads camber... and i ask about the drag link and he said ohh yeah i know what youre talking about....? I thought hmm well why the HE double LL didnt you fix it...
   
  so he says bring it back up here and we'll take care of it...
  i surely hope he dont think that he is getting more $mullaH$ out of me to fix it...
   
  yes i am sure that i could get the drag link myself but shouldnt have to...
   
  I paid to have it done... 
  thats one more of two many times now it seems i have paid for something that hasnt gotten done...or done right../.././....dang PEOPLE sometimes....
   
  Ohh and i did mention" hey does Nodine stilll own that place and he says yeah i said OHH OK good LOL...
   
  didnt tell him though
   
  i used to date Nodines daughter in high school and hang out with her brother Jamie so ..... i am sure it will get made right....or might have to speak to the owner I sure hope not.... damn shame when it has to go to that....Nodine used to be a good ole guy....sure he is... cant always be the blame for his workers though....these days he isnt there anymore is why i ask if he still owned it.... i guess he just has people runnign for him now,.,.,.,. To each his own i recon?
   
  i toook it there with hopes that it being family that they would take care of me better so we will see on my next visit tomorrow afternoon.....
   
  Not mad but maybe they will get Vw Bus educated... or maybe by him saying yeah i know about the drag link(on the phone) means maybe they have been looking over some notes bus material etc since my visit yesterday LOL....
   
  i told him i was bringing the bentley with me.... he said bring it...LOL
   
  peace
  chai




                                                                 Driving down the road singing a song~!~
          ~ Heading towards the FuLLMoon~
