From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 12 Apr 2006 21:46:01 -0400
Subject: Buses By the Beach T-Shirt Pre-order Info

Hello Fellow Volks Folks,

We are getting closer to "Bus Benefit 2006" May 19th-21st hosted on by Buses
By the Beach and sponsored by GoWesty.com. We are looking forward to seeing
everyone again in Grand Rapids, MI for our fourth annual event. As we get
closer there will be more emails about what to expect, what to bring, etc. 

 

This is a charity event to raise money for the Phoenix Society for Burn
Survivors. One of the ways we raise money for our charity is to sell really
cool t-shirts. Please take a moment to pre-order your shirts for this year
to ensure that you get the size and quantity you are looking for. In the
past we always sell out of the most popular sizes and are limited in the
smaller and larger sizes. So this year we are strongly recommending that you
send us your name, sizes and quantities so we can make sure you get a shirt.
We are planning on giving them out the weekend of the event but if you are
not going to attend we can also mail the shirts to you. This year's shirt is
a short sleeve heavy cotton shirt that has a 70's retro look and design. The
picture does not show it but there will be a GoWesty logo on the left
sleeve. 

 

Check them out at:

http://busesbythebeach.com/bbtb06shirt.jpg

 

Shirts are $15 each and shipping is $5 each. Payment can be by check, PayPal
or phone in credit card to Brien Dews at 616-863-8463. If you use PayPal you
can send payment to volksfolks(-at-)busesbythebeach.com and be sure to put in the
notes your name, address, sizes, quantities and whether or not you want them
shipped. Checks can be made out to All Good Time Clock Service and send them
to:

 

Buses By the Beach T-Shirts

c/o All Good Time Clock Service

119-B Courtland St. N.E.

Rockford, MI 49341

 

We will stop taking orders for the shirts Monday May 1st at 5:00pm.

 

Thank you to everyone that has made this event so much fun and a great
success! Can't wait to see everyone again!

 

Wishing you many miles of smiles!

 

The Volks at Buses By the Beach.com

www.busesbythebeach.com <http://www.busesbythebeach.com/> 

Bus Benefit! May 19th - 21st 2006 Grand Rapids, MI 

Bus Bluegrass! June 1st - 4th  2006 Niles, MI

Bus Boo! September 15th - 17th Grand Rapids, MI 

Bus BRR! February 9th - 11th  2007 Angola, IN

 

For more information or to be removed from this email list go to:
www.busesbythebeach.com <http://www.busesbythebeach.com/>  
