Date: Sun, 18 May 2003 17:05:56 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: I did it... swapping engines... help!

>From: "gns.wagnon" <res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net>
>Date: Sun, 18 May 2003 11:51:37 -0500
>
>In particular, I would like to know about the vent on the front of the
>'74 engine  Case # AH263050).

That's the "dog house" for the oil cooler.  On the earlier engine, the
oil cooler is inside the fan shroud, right in line with the fan.  On
the later engine, the oil cooler lives in its own little compartment
or "dog house" and the air that has gone by the cooler goes out the
bottom side.  The front piece of tin on your later engine has another
duct to move this hot air out from inside the engine compartment.

>Also, the Alternator/Generator combo on the '74 engine is a combo unit,
>where the engine out of the bus is not.  Two distinct devices, inter-wired.

Nearly all VWs are like this.  There is a generator or alternator (the
round thing that the fan belt goes to) and a voltage regulator (a little
square box).  On early Bugs and Buses the voltage regulator lived right
on top of the generator; on later Bugs it's under the back seat and on
later Buses it's on the right inner fender well.  I think your Bus would
have had it on the fender well, but I can't tell from the photo.

The generator/alternator and regulator go together.  Don't try to use
the '74 engine with the '63 regulator!  At best it won't work and at
worst it'll release the magic smoke.

>Should/Could I swap them or re-wire the bus to match the newer engine?

The alternator is a bigger OD than the generator and there are some
differences in the pulley and fan hub that I am not too clear on.  Since
I do have wiring stuff and I don't have a pile of pulleys and fans, what
I would do is keep the alternator on the '74 engine and re-wire the Bus
to acommodate the alternator and regulator from the Bug.

>Also, a minor issue that may come... on the carb of the '74 engine (Solex,
>H30/31 PICT, inD. BRAS), there is a huge hole in the front.

It's on the back - front means the front of the car!  If gluing in a coin
worked, do that again.  Maybe use some more tenacious glue or epoxy, like
JB Weld.

Matt Roberds
