Date: Sun, 18 May 2003 23:34:52 -0400
From: Don J <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: starter troubleshooting

A week ago, after I finally got the 60dc home from my brother's 
backyard, The 12v starter that had been working suddenly died - nothing 
at all when key was turned.  some screwdriver tests yielded lot's of 
sparks and smoke, but no action on the solenoid or starter.  So I 
popped in an old spare, and engine turned and started, and has been 
starting all week.  It was clunky, but it worked.  Today, I suddenly 
only had turning of the starter, but gear was not engaging flywheel.  
Tried the 3rd push backwards trick, and it seemed to engage 
momentarily, then just whirrrr.  pulled starter out, teeth on gear were 
ok, looked in housing, and teeth on flywheel looked ok, but there were 
some metal filings on my finger from inside housing.  Noticed screws 
holding solenoid on starter were loose, so I tightened them up, and 
tested it.  gear popped right out as it should so I put it back in.  
Same thing, just clicking, then spinning freely, not enaging flywheel.  
Turned motor by hand, and it turned ok.  So I went back under and tried 
screwdiver across terminals.  solenoid to battery + sounded ok, but did 
not turn over the motor, and there were a couple of sparks.  When I 
jumped the two big terminals, it looked land smelled ike the 4th of 
july.  Starter whirred, but sparks and smoke were everywhere.  I used 
to have to do this all the time on another bus, but don't ever remember 
the sparks and smoke like this.  I've read that a 12v starter will not 
work at all with a 6v flywheel, and I havent had the motor out yet, so 
I'm suspicious about what I will find in there.

Any other tests I could do, or ideas on where to start looking for 
shorts?  I guess it could just be two bad starters, so I'll also try a 
brand new one tomorrow.  I have one day left on the temp plate, and 
need to get 3 miles down the raod to dmv for a vin verification, then 
I'll be registered.

Thanks to all who've been helping me with this resurrection over the 
past week :)

Don J

Check out the Lost Discs Radio Show on the internet!  Spinning obscure 
b-sides from 55-70.  Requests welcome :)
http://lostdiscsradioshow.tripod.com/
