From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 19 May 2003 14:52:57 +0000
Subject: SO-34 interior pieces  FS

Hello Everyone,

I have some extra SO-34 "flipseat" interior pieces that are for sale.  i'm 
offering them to the list first, if no one here is interested in them, I 
will put them up on the samba in a week or so.  First off, if you are 
interested in them, do not reply to this email address.  Please reply to:

m.c.anderson(-at-)m.cc.utah.edu

I have this (hotmail) account filtered to only receive VB list traffic, and 
I don't check it as often as the utah.edu address.  Okay, now on to the good 
stuff.  Pictures of what I have are at:

http://homepage.mac.com/jessicaanderson/PhotoAlbum2.html

to summarize, there is:

- Passenger side "closet" cabinet.  This is the big one.  has all doors and 
shelves.  missing one of the coat hooks, the hangar rod and one latch.
- Icebox cabinet, including the bar cabinets in front.  Missing two latches, 
but the icebox handle is there and unbroken.
- All three side seat cushions with original fabric.  One of them has only a 
small hole in it, it is incredible.  The other two are a bit ratty, but you 
could take the fabric off the two and make one cover, or maybe some triangle 
pillows :-)
- Complete front flipseat!  consisting of seat bottom, seat back, and both 
"flip arms" on the side.
- Several pieces of the base substructure, including the piece below the 
side seats (water bottle storage), the piece that goes under the tunnel 
seat, and the piece that goes behind the front seat pedestals.
- I also have one unbroken black and grey triangle pull handle that came on 
the later SO-34 kits.  I would consider selling it separate if someone out 
there is trying to assemble their kit with a set of these handles rather 
than the brass latches.

I've tried to provide a complete set of photos, but if anyone would like 
some detailed shots, or more descriptions, I'd be happy to provide them.

Now for the fine print.  $700 for all pieces, and I will not separate out 
the parts for separate sale.  Come and get it out of my garage,  I need the 
space.  Get your flipseat back camping!  Convert your swivel seat kombi to a 
flipseat camper! Hack your walkthrough and turn it into a flipseat camper!  
All persuasions are welcome.  Please don't email me and tell me how 
outrageous my price is.  I've been searching for flipseat interior parts 
since '99, and they don't come up all that often.

Pieces are located in Salt Lake City, Utah, It would be extremely 
cost-prohibitive to ship them.

Thanks for the bandwidth,

Mike A.
Salt Lake City, UT
