From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 19 May 2003 21:50:50 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: I did it... swapping engines... help!

In a message dated 5/18/2003 10:13:20 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net writes:

> What we tentatively (still haven't committed yet...) did was to swap the 
> Alternator/Generator from the older single port engine (out of the '63 bus, 
> but not original) to the '74 bug engine (dual port 1600).  The theory being 
> that we leave all the wiring and the voltage regulator (square box) on the 
> bus and not have to mess with it.


Hi Greg,
It will if you make sure the cooling fan you are going to use in the doghouse 
shroud is at least a 33, 34, or better yet 35mm (Inside measurement between 
the discs of the fan.) wide fan and check the Workshop manual for proper 
spacing between the fan and the fan tin.  SP engines used 29mm or smaller 
width which will not pump enough cooling air to keep up with both the engine 
and Doghouse oil cooler demands.  Doghouse was the best cooling system for 
the upright engine because the cooling air going to # 3 & 4 cylinders is not 
preheated by going through the oil cooler first as it was in all earlier 
non-Doghouse shrouded engines.
  The next problem is what voltage is the generator/regulator setup you have. 
 If the regulator is bolted to the top of the generator it is most likely is 
a 6 volt setup.  If the regulator is not bolted to the top of the generator 
it could be a 6 or 12 volt generator.  If it is an alternator then it is a 12 
volt.  We are running 1960-63 buses which originally used the generator with 
regulator bolted on top.

  Does anyone see an issue with this?  Will > the Alternator work on the '74 
> engine?  It sounds like Eric&Barb prefer this solution (leaving the wiring 
> changes on the engine...), but I am an engine swapping virgin and need all 
> the re-assurance I can get.  (sorry for the reference...  must be all those 
> fumes from cleaning the engine compartment).

Anything will work with enough talent/time/money!  We are using a 12 volt 
generator in our 1960 walk thru panel camper conversion.  We welded up a 
bracket on the DH fan shroud to bolt onthe later 12 volt regulator above the 
generator so we could use the original body wiring.
  You could do the same with the alternator if it uses a seperate regulator 
or if it uses the internal regulator it is even easier.
Eric&Barb
