From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 20 May 2003 00:42:23 -0700
Subject: Bastard (evil) Suspension Question

Howzit,

In my '60 DC, there is a '68 front beam (I think) with disc brakes added.
Being that this is not "right" I expect one response to my question(s) to be:
"Put the correct beam in!"

Sorry, can't do that now.  Later, fer sure, but not now.  Maybe.

I have checked out the Library at http://www.type2.com/ , and pawed through
the list archives, but I would love to hear responses to my problems
specifically.

So here's the situation:

Upon finding a very very bad tie rod (right side), I replaced it.  Steering is
now more reactive and stable when driving straight or negotiating gentle
corners.  Responsiveness is up in general, but wind handling is still sorta
puffy.  Steering box is not bad, but there is more play than I'd like.  New
drag link installed.  Center pin bushings OK.

Problem #1:  When taking left-hand corners, especially downhill, the "feel" of
the bus is not-so-good.  It "dives" to the front right, and seems as if
something is pulling the top of the bus to the right.  Like the feeling you
might get right before a rollover.  Uncomfortable.  Like the right front wheel
is "digging in" or "tucking".  This does not happen when turning right.  There
is not an inordinate amount of play in either side of the front
suspension/bearings, etc.. (Although it has just occured to me that I should
check out my rear)

Problem #2 (possibly and probably related to #1):  The tire-wear pattern of
the front tires seems to indicate that the top of the wheels are a little
closer than the bottom (negative camber).  How is this adjustable?  Where,
exactly, is this eccentric cam?

Notes:  Straightline, level, non-windy tracking is good.  Return to center
"feel" is good.  Amount of effort required to turn the steering wheel at
various speeds:  Good, except for when Problem #1 comes into play...the effort
required to turn the wheel to the left is too little, and very touchy!

Thanks for your time, and know that I have adjusted my driving accordingly.
This/these problems have been present the entire time I have had the DC, but
they are either getting worse, or the new draglink and tie rod are making them
more apparent, or perhaps I've been spending too much time behind the wheel of
my 914.....

Gene
