Date: Wed, 24 Oct 2001 02:38:01 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] generator rebuild questions

>From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
>Date: Mon, 15 Oct 2001 19:07:10 -0500
>
>Also, I am curious about any tests I can do with typical garage
>equipment to see if these things are good - I mean, I can use a
>volt/ohmeter to test for shorted coils and armatures, but am wondering
>if I can do anything else with it (book shows things like bridge
>resistance doodads and what nots).

When you are playing with your generator or alternator at home, there
are basically four problems:

1.  Measuring voltage (0-30 V DC or so)
2.  Measuring current (0-50 A DC or more)
3.  Drawing lots of current (50 A DC or more)
4.  Spinning it

#1 is easy, any cheap or expensive voltmeter will do it.

#2 is harder; even nice DMMs usually only have a 20 amp DC current
range.  There are basically two ways to measure amperage: measure
the voltage drop across a known resistance (which is what your DMM
is doing), or measure the magnetic field around the wire of interest.

You can get cheap ammeter gauges at your FLAPS that will read 30-0-30
amps and sometimes 60-0-60 amps.  The resolution is not great and
the calibration is probably not too great either.

If you have a semi-decent voltmeter, you can probably get better
results by putting a shunt (a very low value resistor) in the
circuit and measuring the voltage across the shunt.  You put
the shunt in series with the load; all the current to the load
has to go through it.  The shunt can be an "official" resistor
or just a piece of wire.  If you're using a resistor, it's probably
simplest to use a power-of-ten value, so the current can be read
"directly".  There's nothing wrong with using other values, just
more math in your head.  For example, if you're using an 0.01 ohm
resistor as a shunt, and putting 50 amps through it, you'll measure
0.50 volts across the shunt.  The shunt will also be dissipating
25 watts, so don't touch it.

Unfortunately you can't just run down to Radio Shack and buy an
0.01 ohm, 25 watt resistor.  Shopping for electronic parts at
Radio Shack is like shopping for parts for your Hebmueller in
the "hardware and automotive" aisle of your local grocery store.
Mail-order electronics vendors like Digi-Key or Mouser are more
likely to have what you want.  Mouser stocks an 0.01 ohm, 25
watt resistor for $6.85 and a 50 watt one for $7.38 .

If you want to try using a piece of wire, a 1 foot piece of 20
gauge solid wire should be 0.0102 ohms (trim to 11.82 inches for
0.01 ohms).  There's no guarantee, though, that this wire will
not melt under the 50 amp draw.

There are such things as "inductive" ammeters that measure the
magnetic field around a wire.  These are probably not super accurate
but they're great for high-current circuits and they usually require
*no* hookup.  I have one that looks like a little plastic analog meter
with no test leads or wires.  It has two grooves on the back - a thick
one for battery cables and a thinner one for smaller wires like the
generator/alternator output.  There are two scales on the meter - you
read the one corresponding to the groove you're using.  It's super
simple to use - just hold it against the wire and read.  These are
great for quick "Is my generator putting out or not?  Is my starter
drawing 100 amps or 300 amps?" questions.  A well-stocked FLAPS should
sell these.

#3 is really hard.  You want to have a controlled way to draw current
from the generator for a load test, but at the relatively low voltages
and high currents in cars, the resistances you need to do this are
expensive.  Using your starter is really too much of a load and isn't
very repeatable.  Remember that your generator doesn't really power
your starter directly; the starter runs off the battery and the
generator recharges the battery.

Things that are designed for 120 V AC don't help you much.  A 1200
watt hair dryer at 120 V turns into a 12 watt hair dryer at 12 V. 
Again, you can use a resistor - to draw 50 amps at 6 V you need a
0.12 ohm, 300 watt resistor, and to draw 50 amps at 12 V you need
a 0.24 ohm, 600 watt resistor.  Digi-Key actually sells one that
would work for the 50A/6V load, but it's $25.  For the 50A/12V load,
you could use two of these in series, but that would cost you $50.

You might be able to use a piece of wire here too, but you'd probably
want to use a longer one so as not to melt it.  For example, using
10 feet of 10 gauge solid copper wire would get you an .012 ohm
resistance. 

#4 depends.  If you can put the generator/alternator back on the
engine and use the engine to spin it, cool.  If not you may have
to work out some other way to spin it, like with an electric
motor and a belt.  A 1 HP motor should be able to spin it fast
fast enough to supply as much current as most any VW generator
or alternator is capable of putting out.

Once you have all four items, you can test your generator just like
it says in the Bentley manual.

>Matt Roberds, I am looking in your direction ;)

Uh oh.  They are asking for me by name now...I better move.  :)

Matt Roberds


