Date: Wed, 11 May 2005 20:09:35 -0700
From: "Mike Begley" <spam(-at-)hell.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: AIRS rescue---Engine runs fine, but dies when the engine is

Got an A.I.R.S. rescue here.  We're in north Seattle, about a mile east
of greenlake.  Bus is in front of my house.  Here's her writeup:

Hi AIRS folks, this is Erin on behalf of Sadie the 77 Westy.  I started
out from Vancouver with a perfectly running bus, but I got as far as
Everett before she started coughing out on me on hills.  Here's the
lowdown that I posted on thesamba.com:

My bus is dead. Quick lowdown: 77 Westy with electronic ignition. She'll
start beautifully, idle beautifully, and drive just fine on the flat or
downhill but as soon as I'm driving up a hill, she misses, coughs, and
eventually dies within 10-20 seconds. I can get her to keep going if I
feather the clutch and gas, letting both on and off and so on, but
eventually she dies no matter what.

Okay, here's the long lowdown. I did a tuneup less than 350 miles ago,
the plugs and rotor are new, the plug wires are all fine -- I checked
them, found one not so good, and already replaced it -- the timing is at
7.5 BTDC, I have checked all hoses and found one vaccuum leak that I
have fixed; it is on the hose from the S-boot to the thermotime switch
under the cold start valve, I have replaced the hose which was cracked
at one end and taped up the rubber elbow at the other end which was also
cracked while I wait for the new one that's coming tomorrow morning. The
only issue that I know I have is a hole in my muffler, it's the single
piece extractor kind and it has a small hole out near the tailpipe.

So, this started yesterday morning as I'm rolling down the I-5, going up
a hill and she misses and coughs a couple of times. I pull over and shut
her off. Engine is not hot, I can set my hand on it anywhere with no
problems, dipstick not hot, etc. I find one injector unplugged (WTF???)
so I plugged it back in and off we happily rolled until the next hill
when she did it again, just one cough and when I let off the gas and
then put my foot back down she was back to normal. So, I pull into a gas
station and checked that the flap in the AFM is moving fine, which it
is, so after we sit for about forty minutes she fires up happily and
away we go. About an hour or so later she starts doing it again,
coughing and missing after a few seconds of hill climbing. I stopped
again, we sat for an hour while I fiddled around checking things,
replaced the one plug wire, and again I get about a half hour of happy
driving before she starts the cutting out on hills trick again, trying
to get up one steep hill she coughed until she quit. I stopped for
probably two or two and half hours while I fiddled about, found and
sealed up the vaccuum leak, and she went happily up the same hill she
died on earlier plus a few more steep hills and we camped for the night.
This morning I drove less than ten miles before she started the same
trick on a steep hill, and now she won't pull any kind of a hill without
dying out completely. As soon as I push the clutch pedal in she flattens
right out and runs perfectly. She runs perfectly in neutral at any
speed, she idles smooth as you could ask for, starts just fine, and will
run and get up to city driving speed happily on the flat. But as soon as
we start up a hill, whether from a stop or from speed (city driving
speed, that is), she starts to miss, cough, and eventually dies.

My sinking suspician is something in the clutch, but my clutch and front
seal are new, they were done at the end of February.

Can anybody help me out here? I'm 250 miles from home, and this bus is
all I have in the world. I want to be sure I've completely exhausted
every conceivable thing I can do myself before I bite the bullet and
take her to a shop, if it comes to that I'll be sitting on the pier in
Seattle busking for money to get me and my bus back to BC...

Any thoughts? Thanks in advance for any insights.

Here's a link to the samba conversation:
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?t=114847
