From: "Phil Trenholme" <dim1(-at-)comcast.net>
To: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>, "Miles Erickson"
Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 14:12:56 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Overheating / to those who use Gene Berg dipstick oil 

I bought my 70 bus new in Nov 69. I did drive it wide open for a couple of 
years. Much of this mileage was from San Jose to Squaw Valley and back. I 
recall downhill speeds of 85 mph. I went through a couple of set of heads 
and finally the case cracked behind the flywheel. I installed a CB Mexican 
case machined for full flow, a Rapid Cool external cooler (stock cooler 
removed) balanced the engine, VDO oil temp and press gages. Ran it gently 
this way for about 25 years/70,000 miles. Couple of years ago another new 
case but with factory doghouse, new SP heads, new cam, original rods and 
crank. Doghouse seems to keep the temp down 10 or 15 degrees more than the 
Rapid Cool.  However, I will never drive wide open for hours and I slow down 
whenever the oil temp climbs above 210.
Phil


I agree, and drive the same, but...VW advertised that you could drive it
 floored all day long without harm. Of course, that was a brand new vehicle
 with everything sealed up airtight. However, IMHO as a humble bus pilot, 
our
 35 year old vehicles need a bit more babying...I have all the tin  and
 cooling parts on my engine, and I still baby it. Engines cost too much to
 drive unto meltdown/valve seat failure/big oil puke. I tried carabussing on
 a long highway drive with type 4 engined buses in a hurry and failed, it 
was
 too hard on my engine trying to keep up. I want to find my bus's comfort
 zone, where it's not being pushed to 100% of it's endurance. I never floor
 it other than momentarily. Tom
  70 High Roof

 I would never drive my '71 for four solid minutes with the pedal floored
 under any circumstances.  Not enough cooling to compensate.  If I did that 
and my
 engine melted down, I'd call it "driver error."  If I need the pedal 
floored
 to maintain speed and the hill will last longer than about 20-30 seconds, I
 downshift into 3rd and slow to 40.

 - Miles>
