Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 17:32:03 -0700
From: "Mike Begley" <spam(-at-)hell.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] AIRS rescue---Engine runs fine, but dies when the

Hey all---spent all day on Erin's bus, still no success.  Once again,
the discussion is also going on thesamba here:
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/forum/viewtopic.php?p=819099#819099

Thanks for all the help y'all have give so far; we've used the
discussion to guide our progress.  While we haven't solved the problem,
we have eliminated a lot of possibilities, which is almost as good...
:)

Here's her writeup on what we did today.

--

Okay.  After a full day of banging our heads against the bus, we've
determined the following:

-Fuel pressure is within spec with the vaccuum hose disconnected and
plugged, but with the vaccuum hose reconnected to the pressure
regulator, I get the same pressure reading, about 37 or 38.  Now this is
with my homemade pressure guage (thanks for the tip, Randy!), so who
knows how accurate it is, but I thought I'd throw it out there.

-I put a new fuel filter on this morning -- the old one was dirty -- but
the new filter didn't make any difference in the driving, she still
can't pull a hill.  We've taken her around the block a few times testing
different things, and just now I pulled the new-this-morning filter and
it appears to have crud in it.  Now, keep in mind that even brand new
out of the box it didn't make a difference in the behaviour of the bus.
Keep in mind also that I reconditioned the tank in January.  So, what
should I do next?  My first instinct is to pull the fuel rail and look
at the injectors, although I had the 1/2 side off a few days ago to fix
a burst hose from the rail to #1 injector and the injectors looked fine,
but I didn't test them.

Thanks so much for all the responses and support, everyone.  I
definitely feel like I know my bus better now than I did two days ago,
anyway, but it would be nice to get out of Seattle sometime...

Huge love to Mike and Ivana for putting me up and helping out!  And
Sandy their bus for donating various things to rule out, like a coil and
an AFM.

Which brings me, I suppose, to what I've tested:

The Temp Sensor II, looking for 2500 ohms I got about 2250 - 2300.  Is
this acceptable?

Air Flow Meter: correct resistance at both sets of terminals and the
flap moves just fine.  In fact we pulled the AFM off Mike's bus and
drove mine around the block with his on there and it made no difference.

Put on the coil from Mike's bus, no difference.

Switched out the electronic control unit for a known functioning one, no
difference.
