Date: Thu, 12 May 2005 18:29:56 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Mike Begley <spam(-at-)hell.org>
Subject: Re: [T2] AIRS rescue---Engine runs fine, but dies when the 

> -Fuel pressure is within spec with the vaccuum hose disconnected and
> plugged, but with the vaccuum hose reconnected to the pressure
> regulator, I get the same pressure reading, about 37 or 38.  Now this is

I forget what the correct numbers are, but I would check if you have the 
correct fuel pressure numbers when you are under load.  This would show 
you if you're having fuel delivery problems.  For that you'll have to 
have one person driving and the other person eyeing the gauge.


> -I put a new fuel filter on this morning -- the old one was dirty -- but
> the new filter didn't make any difference in the driving, she still

Yeah, I guess you could rule out the fuel filter, but you might still 
have something blocking the fuel port.  Now, is this stalling happening 
on the hill in the same spot every time?  Like, is it happening when the 
car is in the same "state of lean" every single time you do the test? 
If it were something blocking the port, I would think it would be 
happening sporadically.


> out of the box it didn't make a difference in the behaviour of the bus.
> Keep in mind also that I reconditioned the tank in January.  So, what
> should I do next?  My first instinct is to pull the fuel rail and look
> at the injectors, although I had the 1/2 side off a few days ago to fix

I would pull all the fuel lines underneath the bus and make sure all of 
them are clear and that none of the metal pipes have been kinked.  I 
found the metal outlet of my tank squashed because my mechanic had been 
careless about where they stuck their vice grips to clamp the lines. 
You should also stick some metal wire up into the fuel tanks outlets to 
push anything aside that might be jammed in the outlet.

The other thing I would do that relates to the injectors is pull one 
injector off at a time and see if the car changes it's idle speed.  If 
you pull an injector and the idle speed doesn't change, you know 
something's up.


> a burst hose from the rail to #1 injector and the injectors looked fine,
> but I didn't test them.

If you're having hoses burst, I would change every hose on that bus 
ASAP.  Granted, it's probably not the cause of your problems, but you 
better change them all when you get things sorted out!


> The Temp Sensor II, looking for 2500 ohms I got about 2250 - 2300.  Is
> this acceptable?

That's probably good.  Resistance goes down as temp goes up so it's 
probably a little warmer than room temp when you tested it.  Plus this 
would really only affect you during starting as when the engine is cold, 
you don't have a rich enough mixture if the sensor is defective.  I'd 
doubt that was your problem.


> Air Flow Meter: correct resistance at both sets of terminals and the
> flap moves just fine.  In fact we pulled the AFM off Mike's bus and
> drove mine around the block with his on there and it made no difference.

That's a good test.  Also, what you could do is loosen that spring up a 
bunch of clicks to richen up the mixture and then try driving up the 
hill.  It may or may not work, but remember how many clicks you moved it 
so you know how many to move it back!!

Still, I'd check the fuel pressure on the hill to see if it drops.


> Put on the coil from Mike's bus, no difference.

so coil's probably not the problem.


> Switched out the electronic control unit for a known functioning one, no
> difference.

that's probably good, too

One thing you might want to try is swapping out the harnesses.  It's a 
pain, but you might have a bad wire to one of your injectors.

..

Give the above a try and let us know how it goes...

Mike
