From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Fri, 13 May 2005 8:49:30 -0400
Subject: Re: Re: [T2] microbus news

Heh...

I'm not now, nor have I ever been into big SUVs. Although, I would love to have a 1965 Toyota Land Cruiser (for those who don't know, is basically a Jeep.... ).  There are several reasons why people buy huge large SUVs.... I mean, I'm no expert, and no one says my opinions or views are the correct ones... they could be totally wrong.

For "logical" reasons... it seems that many people buy them now because they are safer. Since everyone else has one now, everyone else also has to have one. Most people don't want to be the only Geo Metro on the road surrounded by huge trucks with box frames.  Then there are those people who also buy them because they tow boats and other stuff..

But... I'd probably say that a large majority of people who buy these huge SUVs do so because of image.  SUV's are the IN thing right now. They're big, expensive and powerful. A lot of people want to be seen in one of those. I guess they want to show off to their friends and / or neighbors.... I don't know... I don't personally own one.

Then again... we all buy cars in some respect or another for image. Many of us have or own a Volkswagen Bus for this reason. To me, cars are like artwork.... people think I'm ridiculous... but just as an artist would paint a picture and display it in a gallery for people to enjoy.... an automotive designer does the same thing. An automotive designer / engineer... when he's designing a car... (at least the aesthetics), he's not really considering the bottom line.... he's simply designing something that in his mind looks pleasing.  When I look at a car, I don't simply look at it as a method of transportation... but I see it more as a piece of rolling art (or engineering feat). The 57 Chevy is a perfect example... it's an excellent icon of American 50s culture... like our VW Busses, it symbolizes a period of time and it's culture. Back in 1957... the 57 Chevy was no more special than a Ford Crown Victoria is today... but that doesn't make the Crown Victoria any less artistic than the 57 Chevy.  I really don't know what my original point was now that I've rambled on...

Oh yeah, in any case... we keep and fix up our busses often for the image of it. Not because we want people to think we're cool... or whatever... but I for one, enjoy the satisifaction of knowing that people (usually) appreciate my Bus when they see it going down the road. It makes me happy when I see other classic cars (of whatever kind) going down the road as well. I like the fact that someone has taken the time to restore / maintain a classic car for future generations to appreciate. 


Anyway... yeah, I'm not really big on SUV's either... heheh. 

and, the Speedos REALLY do have to go...


Todd

> From: Don Tuleja durocshark(-at-)gmail.com
> To: "toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net" toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
> Subject: Re: [T2] microbus news
> 
> 
> But the pollution and eco damage done by building a new vehicle is
> worth decades of lower emissions. Especially a luxo-barge big SUV.
> Driving a bus keeps you ahead of the curve there.
> 
> As for the speedos and spandex... Ew. Keep that crap on the other side
> of the pond. ;-)
> 
> -- 
> Don
