Date: Fri, 13 May 2005 09:10:53 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Re: [T2] microbus news

I don't know if the new microbus will capure American interest. I doubt it. At least not around here (smalltown TN) where VWs are still tiny number of the vehicles on the road. 

We're still stuck in the big pickup, big SUV fad. The new bus is sort of a fad like vehicle too. I wonder if the retro theme of our recent run of cars (Mini, Beetle, PT Cruiser, T-Bird, Mustang, Chevy SSR and soon the new Camaro) will pass into fad status causing the car manufacturers to quit producing what I believe to be the most interesting cars on the road. I noticed Ford killed off the T-Bird. That was a NICE car. Out of my price range for the immediate future too. 

Maybe the average person just wants a boring jellybean car or hulking 4WD SUV (that never leaves the pavement) and doesn't realize it or won't admit it. My close friend bought an Envoy to carry herself and 2 grandkids a few times a year - that was the rationale. LOTS of non-SUV options but obviously she just wanted the Envoy. Her choice, flimsy excuse! <grin!> The funny part was that the previous owner had bought it for his wife unannounced. That wife made him sell it so she could buy a new Passat Wagon! Too big she said. I agree. Another friend used the same line of reasoning to buy a Buick Rendevous with 3 rows of seating. To carry 2 kids. I don't think anyone has been in the 3rd row - ever... <grin!>

The recent articles I read about GM and Ford indicate that their SUV/truck heavy lineup are not selling like they were due in part to gas prices. Maybe folks are tired of how they ride and drive too. Wondering if that will affect mini-van prices too. I expect it will affect our infatuation with maximum traction (4WD and AWD) somewhat. Folks in Michigan prob need it, us asphalt driving southerners don't NEED it. 

Would I buy the new bus? Dunno. Depends on what the final consumer verison is like. In a van I don't need luxury, I need utility. Not utility like a Hummer, but utility like a Eurovan at least. 

Me? I'm considering a used 40K mile Eurovan Weekender VR6 and a used 40K mile Passat Wagon 1.8T. In about 90K miles from here on our current cars. <grin!> 

I'll consider the new bus in about 15 years when they are cheap enough that I can afford one... <grin!> 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
'65 Beetle 2,0L
'97 Cabrio 2,0L
'99 CR-V 2,0L
