To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Mike Anderson <mike(-at-)utahsciencecenter.org>
Date: Sun, 19 Jun 2005 22:45:59 -0600
Subject: engine won't shut off

Hello VintageBus Listees,

Mike Anderson from Salt Lake City here.  I was a listmember from  
1999, until last year sometime as I didn't have time to keep up with  
all of the traffic on the list.  I'm back now, because I have a  
problem and I need some help.

First the symptoms.  Turn ignition switch to run position, both idiot  
lights and the TS blinker light come on as they should.  Turn switch  
to start, and the motor starts right up and purrs.  Ahhhh.  But the  
idiot lights, and the Turn signal light do not go off.  Turn ignition  
switch to Off, and the motor just keeps on running.  Idiot lights  
stay on as well.  It's as if the switch was never turned off.  Go to  
back of bus and pull wire from coil to distributor to shut 'er off.

If I turn switch to run position, and then back off without starting  
the motor, the idiot lights come on, and then off as they should.   
The ignition switch makes the bus behave as expected.

Details: Bus is  'a 64, euro spec wiring harness.  Converted to 12V.   
Stock 1600 DP engine with kadrons, 009 distributor, Bosch blue coil,  
alternator with internal regulator, not a generator.  Wiring harness  
is completely gone over and hooked up as per wiring diagram with one  
exception:  Flasher relay for turn signals.  The turn indicator light  
in the speedo is not hooked up to the flasher relay, as that's the  
only way I can get the external turn signal lights to work.  I  
figured that getting the external flasher lights to work was more  
important than the interior blinky light ;-)  The flasher relay is  
one of those 12V replacement units from Wolfsburg west.  As the bus  
is a euro spec, there is no 9 prong box to replace (and no hazard  
flashers).

I think the culprit lies with either the alternator (Do I need an  
external voltage regulator), or with the fact that my flasher relay  
is not hooked up.  Anybody have any other ideas, or seen anything  
like this?

Thanks,

Mike A.
'64 SO34
