Date: Mon, 20 Jun 2005 09:20:46 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: engine won't shut off

> From: Mike Anderson <mike(-at-)utahsciencecenter.org>
> Date: Sun, 19 Jun 2005 22:45:59 -0600
>
> Turn ignition switch to run position, both idiot lights

OK

> and the TS blinker light come on as they should.

Huh?  The turn signal indicator light should not come on when the key
is in "run".  It should only be on when the turn signals are on.  I
don't think this is the root cause of your problem, but it might be
part of it.

> Idiot lights stay on as well.  It's as if the switch was never turned
> off.

You do have enough oil and a working fan belt, right?  OK, OK, I have to
ask.

> Wiring harness is completely gone over and hooked up as per wiring
> diagram

The Euro wiring diagram, right?  bus-62.jpg at VintageBus .

> with one exception:  Flasher relay for turn signals.  The turn
> indicator light in the speedo is not hooked up to the flasher relay,
> as that's the only way I can get the external turn signal lights to
> work.

Is the indicator light hooked up to anything?  If it's not connected
to the flasher, and is correctly wired at the speedo, it shouldn't
ever come on.

> As the bus is a euro spec, there is no 9 prong box to replace
> (and no hazard flashers).

Even a '64 US-spec bus wouldn't have had a 9-prong box, originally.

> I think the culprit lies with either the alternator (Do I need an
> external voltage regulator), or with the fact that my flasher relay
> is not hooked up.

If the alternator is truly an internal regulator, then you shouldn't
need an external-regulator alternator if everything is hooked up right.
What are the terminals on the alternator labeled?  If it says B+ and 61
it probably is an internal regulator.  But if it says D+ and 61 then it
may need an external regulator.  Are there any terminals on the
alternator with no wires on them at all?

You might try this: unplug the black wire on the back of the ignition
switch, then hold it against the terminal it came off of, but don't plug
it back on.  Start the engine, then remove the black wire from the
terminal - this simulates the action of a correctly-operating ignition
switch.  If removing the black wire makes the engine shut off, then your
ignition switch is probably bad.  If it doesn't, plug the black wire
back onto its terminal and continue.

The flasher relay is also a suspect.  One simple thing you can do to
eliminate the relay and the alternator at one whack: disconnect all
the wires at the flasher and tape them up individually, disconnect all
the wires at the alternator and tape them up individually, and then
try starting the Bus and shutting it off.  If the ignition switch
behaves correctly, you need to chase the alternator or turn signal
flasher.  If it still doesn't shut off with the key, try this: shut
off the engine, turn off the key, then pull every single fuse out of
the fuse box.  Try starting the engine again.  If the ignition switch
behaves correctly, then there's a misconnection somewhere downstream
of the ignition and battery fuses.  If it still doesn't shut off with
the key, you've at least eliminated most of the electrical hardware in
the Bus.

Here's another thought... does it still have the Euro-spec, three wire
turn signal switch?  If it has been replaced with a US-spec six-wire
switch, and the new switch was not hooked up correctly, it might be
contributing to your problem.

Matt Roberds
