Date: Wed, 22 Jun 2005 16:17:49 -0700
From: "MICHAEL TURNER" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "'wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.'" <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Subject: Fw: tool list

Hey folks,
Saw this on the SAMBA site. Thought it was funny as heck.
Also true!
Enjoy


VOLKSWAGEN  MECHANICS  TOOL  GUIDE
(Don't own or maintain a VW ?  No problem, this list is generic. Will work
for
FORD, GMC, CHRYSLER, TOYOTA, ETC, MECHANICS

HAMMER; Originally employed as a weapon of war, the hammer nowadays is used as
a kind of divining rod to locate expensive parts as well as unprotected
fingers not far from the object we are trying to hit.

MECHANIC'S KNIFE; Used to open and slice through the contents of cardboard
cartons delivered to your front door; works particularly well on boxes
containing leather and fabric products.

ELECTRIC HAND DRILL; Normally used for spinning steel Pop rivets in their
holes until you die of old age, but it also works great for drilling mounting
holes in fenders just above the brake line that goes to the rear wheel.

PLIERS; Used to round off bolt heads and pinch the part of your palm by the
handle.

HACKSAW; One of a family of cutting tools built on the Ouija board principle.
It transforms human energy into a crooked, unpredictable motion, and the more
you attempt to influence its course, the more dismal your future becomes.

VISE-GRIPS; Used to round off bolt heads. If nothing else is available, they
can also be used to transfer intense welding heat to the palm of your hand.

OXYACETYLENE TORCH; Used almost entirely for lighting various flammable
objects in your garage on fire. Also handy for igniting the grease inside a
brake drum you're trying to get the bearing race out of.

SAE SOCKETS; Once used for working on domestic cars and trucks, they are now
used mainly for impersonating that 13mm or 11mm socket you've been searching
for the last 15 minutes.

DRILL PRESS; A tall upright machine useful for suddenly snatching flat metal
bar stock out of your hands so that it smacks you in the chest and flings your
beer across the room, splattering it against that freshly painted part you
were drying.

WIRE WHEEL; Cleans rust off old bolts and then throws them somewhere under the
workbench with the speed of light. Also removes fingerprint whorls and
hard-earned guitar calluses in about the time it takes you to say, 'Ouc....'

HYDRAULIC FLOOR JACK; Used for lowering a Volkswagen to the ground, trapping
the jack handle firmly under the pan somewhere.

EIGHT-FOOT LONG DOUGLAS FIR 4X4; Used for levering a Volkswagen upward off a
hydraulic jack handle.

PHONE; Tool for calling your neighbor to see if he has another hydraulic floor
jack.

TWEEZERS; A tool for removing wood and metal splinters.

SNAP-ON GASKET SCRAPER; Theoretically useful as a sandwich tool for spreading
mayonnaise; used mainly for getting dog-doo off your boot.

E-Z OUT BOLT AND STUD EXTRACTOR; A tool that always snaps off in bolt holes
and is ten times harder than any earthly known drill bit.

TIMING LIGHT; A stroboscopic instrument for illuminating grease buildup.

TWO-TON HYDRAULIC ENGINE HOIST; A handy tool for testing the tensile strength
of ground straps and fuel lines you may have forgotten to disconnect.

CRAFTSMAN 1/2 x 16-INCH SCREWDRIVER; A large motor mount prying tool that
inexplicably has an accurately machined screwdriver tip on the end opposite
the handle.

BATTERY ELECTROLYTE TESTER; A handy tool for transferring sulfuric acid from a
car battery to the inside of your toolbox after determining that your battery
is dead as a doornail, just as you thought.

AVIATION METAL SNIPS; Follows similar principle as hacksaw - also useful for
producing razor sharp edges on sheet metal, as well as impersonating that wire
cutter you cant find.

TROUBLE LIGHT; The mechanic's own tanning booth. Sometimes called a drop
light, it is a good source of vitamin D, 'the sunshine vitamin,' which is not
otherwise found under Volkswagens at night. Health benefits aside, its main
purpose is to consume 40-watt light bulbs at about the same rate that 105-mm
howitzer shells might be used during, say, the first few hours of the Battle
of the Bulge. More often dark than light, its name is somewhat misleading.

PHILLIPS SCREWDRIVER; Once used to stab the lids of old-style paper-and-tin
oil cans and splash oil on your shirt; great for use as an oil filter removal
tool, can also be used, as the name implies, to round off Phillips screw
heads.

AIR COMPRESSOR; A machine that takes energy produced in a coal-burning power
plant 200 miles away and transforms it into compressed air that travels by
hose to a Chicago Pneumatic impact wrench that grips rusty bolts last
tightened 60 years ago by someone in Germany, and rounds them off.

PRY BAR; A tool used to crumple the metal surrounding that clip or bracket you
needed to remove in order to replace a 50 cent part.

HOSE CUTTER; A tool used to cut hoses 1/2 inch too short.

GEAR PULLER; A tool mainly used in a futile effort to remove ball joints from
a Volkswagen front end.

ALLEN WRENCHES; Tool that comes in a set that includes every size imaginable
except for 15mm.

INVERTED 15mm BOLT AND VICE GRIPS; Improvised tool created to replace 15mm
Allen wrench in order to change transmission fluid.

STANDARD AUTO BATTERY; An object that is easily stolen to replace dead battery
from shitty car at two in the morning.

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of icon_eek.gif]

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of icon_lol.gif]
