Date: Fri, 24 Jun 2005 15:22:58 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Fuel tank cleanout (was never assume)

>From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
>Date: Thu, 23 Jun 2005 17:21:51 -0400 (EDT)
>
>Now, what to do with four gallons of stale and dirty gas...

This seems to be getting a little easier over time.  About ten years ago
I drained about five gallons of bad gas out of a '74 Bug that had sat for
a couple of years.  At first I thought I would burn it in my fuel-injected
'89 Ch(-at-)vy.  I waited until the Ch(-at-)vy was about half full, put in about a
gallon of the old gas, and then went to the gas station and loaded up on
premium unleaded and a bottle of Heet.  Well, that didn't work... the
old gas did NOT want to burn - the Ch(-at-)vy bucked and stalled and was a
PITA to drive.  The gas would burn if you poured a little into a tin can
and lit it, but it wouldn't burn in an engine.

Looking for a way to get rid of the gas, I called the city water department
and they said "Uhhhh... Call the fire department." The fire department said
"Call a private HAZMAT place like Safety-Kleen." ($$$) I finally got rid of
it by giving it to a buddy who was planning a bonfire on a farm out in the
country.  The "other" way to get rid of it was to wait for a hot afternoon
and pour it on your driveway (or other paved surface) until it evaporated...
not so great for the environment, or for you personally if somebody walks
along the sidewalk smoking a cigarette.

Many cities have finally figured out that if you charge people to get
rid of HAZMATs, they will just pour them in the storm sewer or in the
toilet, causing untold travail at the waste water plant.  Therefore
some cities hold "HAZMAT days" periodically - you can bring in old gas,
paint, solvents, pesticides, etc, and they will be safely disposed of.
Sometimes you have to prove that you live in the city - like by showing
them a recent water or light bill - and they usually won't take
"commerical" quantities, which they get to define.  Here in Tulsa these
happen twice a year, and I got rid of a few gallons of old gas from my
Bus when I first got it.

If there aren't "HAZMAT days" in your area, the best place to start is
probably the fire department, since they typically care the most about
"creative" disposal of old gas.  They might be able to use it for
training, or (in the country) direct you to a landowner that is planning
a controlled burn or just a bonfire.

Matt Roberds
