Date: Sat, 25 Jun 2005 22:06:45 -0400
From: "Mark A. Thomas" <markt(-at-)duke.edu>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: shock recommendations

I'm looking to buy new shocks for my '66 transporter and would like 
recommendations.  I want a firm ride ... less bouncing and not having the tires 
leave the road when I go over bumps; firmer feel when I go around corners. It 
just has a stock 1500 engine, so I'm not driving it like a hot rod, and only 
put maybe 500 miles per year on it these days, mostly around town, but want to 
feel a little more control.  It currently has KYB GR2's on the front and who 
knows what on the rear -- there are no markings on them; they might be some 
sort of JC Whitney specials from years ago :-)

1. One issue is that I just have inexpensive passenger car radials (P195/75R14) 
on the car, and I'm not sure I want or can afford to pay for both better shocks 
and better tires all at once. The tires have a lot of tread left on them. 
Won't the car drive better with better shocks even if I retain these tires for 
the time being?

2. I'm *really* pleased with the Bilsteins I put on my '96 Mazda B2300 truck 
(Ford Ranger).  It's a joy to drive, and the Bilsteins are quite superior to 
the worn stock shocks on it when I got it.  I don't mind paying for these on 
the bus (but not at the same time I get new tires).  Apparently the correct 
part numbers are B46-0032 (front) and B46-0040 (rear).  Is that right?  These 
seem to cost around $61-65 each on the web. Any recommended dealers?

3. How do the KYB Gas-Adjust compare with the Bilsteins?  They're a little 
cheaper, but maybe not enough to worry about.

4. At the Type2.com website, there's an article where someone recommends Boge 
heavy duty (HD) shocks for a transporter.  Are these the OEM replacement shocks 
sold by, say, Bus Boys?  Or are those a lesser model of Boge shocks.  I can't 
seem to find any Boge website that talks about shocks. I guess it's the same 
company that makes air compressors.

5. Any other brands/models recommended?

6. Should I go ahead and get a steering damper at the same time?  How many 
miles before that should be replaced?  (I probably have records of when I last 
replaced it, but maybe only 8-12,000 ago (maybe 12-15 years).  In the past, I 
waited to replace the JC Whitney damper on my '70 Beetle until it totally 
failed and the car went into a "death wobble" at 50 mph when I went over RR 
tracks or hit a pothole (yeah, the alignment was probably way off, too).  I 
figure it might be good to get this at the same time as new shocks.

Thanks,
	Mark Thomas
	Durham, NC
	mark(-at-)duke.edu
	'66 13-window De Luxe
