Date: Mon, 27 Jun 2005 12:56:29 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: AL craptacular case runs - sorta

>From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
>Date: Sun, 26 Jun 2005 22:38:44 -0700
>
>well, THAT was unpleasant.

"Doctor, it hurts when I do this!"
"Well, don't do that."

:)

>more screechies from the damn generator pulley, which refuses to stay
>torqued and constantly loosens. which sucks, cuz it is my GOOD
>generator, and a buggered shaft threads mean trash time.

First thing I'd try would be to take the pulley off and clean the
threads (in the dirt removal sense, not the fix-buggered-threads sense)
with brake cleaner and maybe a small brush to get into the threads.
Same thing for the nut - brake cleaner and a brush.  Then put it
back together dry with the belt and figure out how many shims you
need.  Take the nut off and put Loctite on the shaft threads, then
put the nut back on.  There are at least two grades of Loctite and
I would probably start with the "can be removed with hand tools"
one and see what happens.  If that doesn't get it, you might clean
all the old Loctite out and go to the "must use power tools" one.
This may make belt adjustments challenging, but it's probably cheaper
than sourcing another generator.

Maybe you could drill the nut and the shaft and use a cotter pin?
One problem here is that you might need a sort of oval hole in
the shaft, since the position of the nut front-to-back varies a
little with belt wear.  Also, this quantizes your nut tightness
in 1/6 turn increments, which might not be optimal.

This might be harder to cost-justify, but: you could turn down the
end of the shaft where the threads are and rethread it for a smaller
nut.  This also means that you've reduced the working shaft diameter
to whatever the root of the threads are, which might not be enough
for the load it has to take.  For a 30 amp 12 V generator, there is
_at least_ 0.5 hp being transmitted through that shaft, and that's
just to make electricity.  The fan will require some power as well.

I think that some machine shops can do something like plating the
end of the shaft in several layers to build up the thickness, then
recutting the original threads.  This is something you might do
for the original generator on a '46 Bug, but probably isn't cost-
effective for anything much newer than that.

>1) gummy carb. after all, it did sit for 7 months in a can. empty,
>but still - lots of small passages to get clogged. time for a soaking!

I'd vote for this as well.  Let it soak for longer than it says on
the side of the bucket, then blow out with compressed air - even
the "pool toy" nozzle on your tire air compressor will work.  If
you don't like what you get, back in the bucket it goes.

>2) is the possibility that i have 10 gallons of jello in the tank,
>despite my addition of fuel stabilizer in december.

I have noticed that old gas has a distinctive smell - or possibly
more accurately - lack of smell.  I think what happens is that the
more volatile components evaporate out sooner, which is why the
smell changes.  It's hard to put in words, but it's easy to smell
fresh gas the next time you're filling up the car.  If you take
a big whiff of fresh gas, you feel like you're going to get high.
Also, if you spill a little fresh gas, or open up a gas tank or
gas jug with fresh gas, you can quickly smell it, even some distance
away.  Stale gas doesn't smell as "sharp" and you can inhale the
fumes without feeling as dizzy.  You also usually have to get
closer to the container before you can smell the gas.

Matt Roberds
