Date: Thu, 30 Jun 2005 21:13:20 -0700
From: Seann Stafford <2typeiitransporters(-at-)gmail.com>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, VintageBus list
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] Re: Fuel tank cleanout (was never assume)

I used to work with the Marin Conservation Corps.  When we were going
through our training on chainsaws and other gas powered tools they
brought out several reps from the local fire department.

One of the tests they did was to take an empty coffee can and fill it
to the top with gasoline.  The fireman would throw a match into it and
it would put the match out every time.  Then he would pour the top 3
inches or so out of the can, cover it, then shake it to agitate the
fuel.  Would then set the can on the ground and take the lid off.
They had everybody stand back many feet and then he threw another
match into the can.  Bawoom! Flame shot straight up several feet.

It was explained to us that fuel in and of itself, in a fluidous
state, isn't very flamable at all and is quite stable.  Fuel vapor
however is extremely flammable.  Igniting vapor can also cause what
was previously stable gasoline to vaporize and add 'fuel to the fire'
if you will.

Same concept of a carburator which atomizes fuel to get the same
effect of combustion.

That was twenty years ago and I still make certain that when I store
gasoline cans that I fill them completely and keep them in relatively
cool locations.  I now always try to store fuel in a _full_ container,
to minimize the air volume and reduce the hazard level when storing.

I may not be a fireman, but those that I have known have proven to me
what goes boom when it comes to gasoline.  Be smart when storing your
fuels.

Also, find out where your local dump is.  Give them a call.  Most of
the time public disposal facilities will have a group that receives
materials such as old fuel.  The one in my local area in Oregon City
takes battery acid, enamel paints, and a vast array of other materials
they don't want folks to ignite, dump into storm drains, or pour into
the soil/ water table.

--
Seann Stafford
1976 VW Transporter (Krista, a.k.a. Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 VW Transporter (Freidrich, a.k.a. Fred if you're 5 yrs. old)
