Cc: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Wed, 22 Sep 2004 21:45:16 -0400
To: "Michael Knight" <vwdormer(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Happy Dance in Progress

Hi Michael,

Be VERY CAREFUL with a hot-wired bus. This is an excellent opportunity 
to learn from the mistakes of others.

I hot-wired Colleen's Sunroof Bus last summer. I jumpered the coil and 
fuel pump to the battery then hit the remote starter and she fired up 
real sweet. I was happy to discover that the cast-iron-plumbing exhaust 
sounds much better than it looks.

So I asked Colleen if she wanted a ride in her bus.... Just around the 
block, to experience the smooth combination of FI and auto tranny. 
While she was in the house grabbing a sweater I three-point-turned the 
bus in the street in front of the house.

While I was turning the bus around we had a little problem... The 
throttle cable got stuck with the bus running at about half throttle in 
reverse. So I hit the brakes. Then I found out the brakes weren't very 
good. The front brakes locked up tight but the rear wheels kept pulling 
the bus backwards towards the neighbors yard, dragging the front tires 
along the road. Not good. Had to act fast.

My solution was to grab the stickshift and change gears. With a mighty 
KLA-BANG, the bus went into Park. I would have preferred neutral, but 
anything was better than piling into a neighnbor's car. The bus 
immediately stalled out.

When I restarted the bus it was making an awful racket. Colleen was 
very unhappy with me. The racket gets worse when the engine speeds 
up.... I'm told I've probably busted the flex plate, the torque 
converter or the park pin. This fall I am planning to swap out the 
transmission; this should tell the rest of the story. And I'll get the 
brakes and throttle linkage adjusted before the next test-drive!!

Moral of the story: The double-relay is an important safety feature for 
the bus. Bypass it at your own peril.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com


On 22-Sep-04, at 7:51 PM, Michael Knight wrote:

Then I tested the pump again be running a jumper from the + side of the 
battery straight to the pump. BINGO! It was so nice to here that light 
swirling sound. I didn't quit though, I put a switch in the line to act 
as a breaker for the pump, connected the power again, key on, with 
remote starter in hand. She turned over and over and over then 
puff......puff.....puff...puff..puff. puff.......twisted the dizzy. 
Vvvrrrooooommm! Like clock work I hit the timing close and she was 
running. WOOOOOOOOOOOHOOOOOOOOOOO!

Now I just need to get that relay and work out the kinks, doesn't idle 
well as of yet. But beyond idle she sounds great.

Thanks to all that helped I really appreciate it,

Michael Knight
'77 Westy Deluxe, "el Verde"
