Date: Sun, 25 Sep 2005 20:45:51 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Gregory PJ Smith <rnrkeys(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: New 1776 into a 69 = KaChunk

What a weekend.

Greg broke down in Grand Junction, CO. Troy Wical got a ya'llhaul trailer
and went to pick him up.

They determined the engine was siezed. I mentioned I had a brand new 1776
setting here and if he wanted to pay the guy I owed for it, he could have
it. Everybody agreed so I took the engine over Sat morning.

Lots of issues taken care of and resolved (full flow case oil outlets would
have blocked the moustache bar, so we had to get an empi oil pump with the
outlets at an angle, etc.)

The old engine was tossed into a 40 gallon bucket to be cleaned after all
the tin and intake and exhaust and such were pulled and put on the new
engine. Of course it didn't occur to anybody to get the clutch gear off.
D'oh! Calls to all the flaps that are open on Sunday found that not a single
clutch disk or set exists in CO for a 71.

(Did you catch a problem yet?)

Since none existed, and the one on the old engine was full of Engine Brite,
we had to figure out something. I remembered my 71 had a clutch and pressure
plate in it when I got it. So we made the drive back to my place in Troy's
beautiful double cab with a top speed of 40 or so... (It's a 62 I believe.)
Grabbed 'em, checked the disk and verified it had almost exactly 1/16th of
an inch of material above the rivets. Enough to get Greg to NC.

Back to Troy's. Install clutch components. Oh oh. No alignment tool.
Eyeballed it and put it together. Troy hit the sack (he works graveyard) and
Greg and I got the engine in. Mostly Greg. I just manuvered the ATV jack
wherever he said. But it got all bolted to the trans. WooHoo! Right?

We attached all the wires, replaced all the fuel lines and vacuum lines, and
so on.

Greg headed forward to turn the ignition...

KaChunk.

Huh?

KaChunk.

WTF?

Ok, I know the engine was pretty tight and tough to turn. Maybe it just
needs to be moved through its paces now that there's oil in there. I tell
Greg to put it in gear and we'll roll the bus forward and back a few times.
He does and the ENGINE DOESN'T TURN! The bus rolls easily as if it was in
neutral.

WTF?

I try to turn the engine at the flywheel bolt. Not a lick. It's dark now so
I head home, and poor Greg is left to suffer another night without his bus.

I got home a little bit ago and got cleaned up, scarfed some food, and
re-introduced myself to my family. Then it hits me.

69 and 71 clutches ARE DIFFERENT! I verified this with totally different
part numbers on the BD site.

I have a feeling this is going to be the case and wanted to ask the list
what ya'll thought. Could an incorrect clutch cause the problems described
above? Maybe input shaft length? Clutch diameter? Something else?

--
Don
