Date: Mon, 26 Sep 2005 01:13:57 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: Re: turn signal switch is a lightbulb!

On Sun, 25 Sep 2005, craig wrote:
> and why is pretty smoke curling up around the turn signal switch?

Are you sure you aren't driving my old Ch(-at-)vy?  It did this to me once...

> even better, how did a LIGHTBULB get in there?

OK, the Ch(-at-)vy never did this.  Cosmic rays?

> by the side of the road, it appeared that a t/s return spring was
> glowing like the filament of a lightbulb every time the blinker box
> clicked...

You found it.  One way to think of the turn signal flasher or blinkgeber
is that it is a self-resetting circuit breaker that is a little bit too
small to carry the load of the outside lamps.  Normally the circuit
breaker has one end connected to the battery and the other end not
connected to anything.  When you operate the turn signal switch, the
circuit breaker gets connected to the outside lamps.  The breaker is
closed, so current flows and the outside lamps light up.  A second or so
later, the breaker trips and the outside lamps go out.  Then the breaker
resets itself, and the outside lamps come back on, and so on.

The trick is that the blinkgeber really doesn't care what's loading it
down.  If you spliced your radio power wire into the output wire of the
blinkgeber, it would probably be most happy to turn your radio off and
on every second or so.  (Poor man's staccato pedal, I guess.)  Anyway,
what has most likely happened is that the spring you saw is shorting
between the output wire of the blinkgeber.  The output wire of the
blinkgeber ends inside the turn signal switch, so that's one end.
Ground can come from the metal turn signal housing or perhaps the
steering column.  These connections are "before" the turn signal switch,
so the load of the spring is always presented to the blinkgeber, so it
always blinks whenever it has power.

If you want to rule out the blinkgeber totally, unplug the two wires
from it that have black in their color scheme.  Put the fuses back in,
turn on the ignition, and connect those two black wires to each other.
The spring should light up and stay lit as long as you hold the wires
together (or until the fuse blows, or the turn signal switch catches on
fire, or whatever.)

Matt Roberds
