Cc: Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Mon, 26 Sep 2005 10:56:08 -0700
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] air tools

On Sep 26, 2005, at 8:41 AM, Chris M. wrote:

> Back to the air compressor: as I understand it - we need to be  
> shopping for CFM rather than pressures - right?

An 18 CFM compressor doesn't do much good if it only runs to 50 psi  
and vice versa. You want to maxmize both within your budget.

Your shopping list should consider:

1) Cast iron design means longer life. Oil free design does not. Two  
stage means there are two pistons which split the work of pumping to  
air from atmosphere to tank psi.

2) An 80 gallon tank which everyone recommends is really nice to have  
but consider how large it is and where you are going to put it before  
you buy. They weigh about 500-600 lbs.

3) There was recently a class action lawsuit having to deal with the  
exaggerated claims of HP from compressor manufacturers:

http://www.aircompressorsettlement.com/

In a nutshell, there is no way to pull 5 HP continuously from a 120V,  
15A wall outlet but that didn't stop the mfgrs from overstating the  
electric motor powering the compressor. The true size of the motor  
will govern how much CFM and psi you will produce all other things  
being equal.

2 HP is about the limit for 120V so you should consider using 230V  
which will halve your current requirements or allow you to run a  
larger motor. You'll have to determine that state of your garage  
wiring before hand because when these 230V compressor startup the  
peak power requirement  can trip the breaker.

4) The more CFM the better. Many models reach 175psi. Why is this  
important? Because compressed air follows the ideal gas law and a  
75psi drop is also measured as CFM of air escaped. The higher the  
pressure you keep the tank the easier it is for the tank to supply  
some of your air requirements without having to have the compressor  
run full time. For example:

100 psi, 15CFM compressor running 15 CFM paint gun at 29 psi runs 1.5  
min w/ compressor off.
Same compressor set to 175psi runs same tool for 2.8 minutes.

5) Compressors are usually rated by SCFM. This is a meaningless  
number and you should look for actual or ACFM number. This is the  
true output of the compressor that you will need to know in order to  
determine how long your tools will run. Low quality units will have  
low ACFM for their tank size.

The tank pressure will go down as you use your tool. Your compressor  
has to be able to produce enough CFM to keep up. If the CFM capacity  
of your compressor is underrated, you will run down the tank quickly  
because the compressor won't be able to maintain the pressure. <Take  
a break while it recharges>. You can imagine how frustrating this is  
after you've spent a pile of money and wished you'd bought a few  
electrically powered tools for a lot less.

6) There are pressure loses that occur through leakage, hose length  
etc. If your tools need 15 CFM you need a 17 CFM compressor.

7) Check the requirements of each tool before you decide on a  
compressor. Even though I said the mfgrs overstate their abilities  
it's the best you can do before trying out the tool after purchase.

Back to baywindows ...

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
