Date: Mon, 26 Sep 2005 12:40:39 -0700 (PDT)
From: phil cain <bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] won't go

http://www.bostonengine.com/articles/009.html
                                                      
 Boston Bob has some good advice for timing your 009
as does Ken Hooper from the T-2 List 
http://type2.com/  use this as you can, the timing is
not set right for your engine.. The 009 on a T-4
engine will run fair but it has to be set right, and
that is set to 30 degrees at 2500 RPM you have to take
what you get at idle.. Phil                           
                                                      
                                                      
                                                      
                                                      
                                                      
                        Timing the Bosch OO9 
by Ken Hooper


The thing about timing is that what matters most is
what happens at cruising speed, maximum
advance--that's where you can burn up an engine
quickly if your timing is too far advanced. 

But: The Bosch 009 does not have a predictable advance
curve--the German ones are different from the
Brazilian ones and the worn ones are different from
the new ones and on it goes. The natural result of
this is that just because you've timed the 009
properly at idle does not mean you have any way of
knowing what's going on at highway speeds. 

So while the stock vacuum advance distributors can
safely be timed at idle (or even timed statically per
Muir, although this is never optimal), the 009 has GOT
to be timed to about 30 degrees TOTAL ADVANCE with a
timing light. Which means you have to rev it up until
the distributor stops advancing before you can dial it
in. 

It takes three hands and if the process isn't painful,
you aren't doing it right. =^ ) It's okay to time it
statically at around zero degrees in order to get the
engine started, but you have to finish the process
dynamically by making lotsa noise. 

It is very easy to find 30 degrees without a degree
wheel as long as you know where top dead center is.
From TDC, measure an inch and three quarters (1 3/4")
to the right around the diameter of a stock pulley.
That's about 28 degrees, go a tinch further and mark
it with fingernail polish or something. 

If you don't know where TDC is, then you have to pull
the #1 spark plug and push the eraser end of a pencil
in the hole and rotate the engine and feel the piston
until you figure it out. 

A basic timing gun is ~$20, get one and carry it with
you, it's an irreplacable tool. 
