Date: Mon, 26 Sep 2005 13:50:54 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com, VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Engine conversion (Wasserleaker)

>the biggest problem with the vanagon s leaking
is dummies running them hot and not using the
correct antifreeze 

VWOA myth/excuse.  VW paid for many new engines
under warranty, and I knew guys that had all the
dealership receipts for their service.  
I've seen blown head gaskets on vanagons that
never had anything but blue antifreeze (I forget
what it costs a gallon, like $20+ or so and there
is quite a few gallons in the system) and were
never was overheated.  

What about the problem of the 28 (or so) coolant
hoses costing around $1000 to replace every few
years?  I bought the interior out of a sweet 86
wolfsburg that had low miles about 10 years ago
because the surgeon that owned it decided to
crush the vanagon rather than pay for a new set
of hoses.   

>IIRC, there was a rather involved cooling system
bleeding procedure, that, if not followed to the
letter, resulted in air locks in the system.  

And the coolant pipes that rust (NLA but the
later plastic pipes are available for several
hundreds), the plastic junctions that become
brittle and break due to heat (NLA- go to the
hardware store and good luck), the heater cores
that leak ($100+), the heater fans ($150+) that
fail often.  

Lets not even talk about vanagon 2 speed manual
trannies (that's a 4 speed with a broken 3/4
slider).  Or the fuel system.  Or ECU's and the
patch... and the famous Darrell Boehler digitool
to try to diagnose the FI schizophrenia.  Not to
mention that the wasserleaker LOOKS like a 10th
grade shop project.  What a cobbled together
embarrassment.  

They ride nice-- really nice for a van (I don't
call them busses)-- and have plenty of room, for
sure.  A vanagon might be ok for someone with the
skill Mark, but I sure as hell don't miss my
vanagone.  Good riddance.  
