Date: Thu, 8 Sep 2005 08:04:50 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Got the GWB Home!

What an adventure...

On the way to picking me up from work, wife stopped for gas in the Volvo.
Car wouldn't start after getting gas. I get a coworker to take me there and
we jump the car. Fires right up. Ok, so I thank him and get the family
loaded into the car. As soon as I press the brake the dash lights came on
and the car died a second later. Crap. I'm guessing a short in the alt or
regulator (same thing in this car).

I call Troy to say I won't be making it to work on the busses and he
volunteers to come rescue me. Cool.

He gets there and we try jumping the Volvo again. Fires right up again, but
this time it won't die. WTF? So he follows us home and no problems at all.
Bizarre.

I hop into his truck and we head back to work on the busses. It's around 8pm
when we finally get to his place. We start working with him lapping the
cylinders to the heads and me installing heat exchangers. BTW: Did you know
the torque for the HEs to the heads is only 16ft lbs? Oops. I've been WAY
overtorquing them all this time. Never occurred to me to look the spec up.
No wonder I stripped out the bosses.

After the HEs are on I do a test firing. It seemed to come right up, but was
so loud I quickly shut it off. Muffler sans 3 studs to the HEs. (Remember,
I'm in a hurry. A noisy muffler won't kill me.) I double check everything I
could think of and fire it up again. But it won't idle. Must be vacuum leaks
I think and it being like 11pm now I just start slopping silicone on all the
hose connections (balance tube and booster connections). I then check the
torque on the intake studs. They seemed a bit low which is odd since I used
the same torque wrench on the same setting. Whatever.

Fire it up and it dies. Hmmm... Do that a few times before giving up and
heading back to seek the issue. Ahh... Wire to the fuel pump broke somehow.
Splice and it kicks right into a really high idle. Fine. I'll tune the carbs
later.

So I clean up and lock up his backyard and head home. Construction has the
interchange I need closed down so I have to go 10 miles out of my way to get
home. Along the way the alt light starts glowing dimly. But the lights never
dim so I ignore it. Then I get almost home and realize I forgot something
kind of important...

I NEVER TIGHTENED THE STUDS ON THE BOTTOM OF THE ENGINE/TRANNY JOINT!!!!

Doh!

Back out to finish things up today...

--
Don
