Date: Thu, 8 Sep 2005 16:35:49 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: One step forward, two steps back

After the fiasco of a working session this weekend, the bus runs. Barely.

Luckily for me the studs and nuts on the bottom of the engine/trans
connection were still there. Cranked 'em down. The rear main seal I
replaced, one of my big tasks, is holding nicely. Found my idle problem was
the linkage to the carbs had come off one of the ball joints. It allowed me
to go and drive, but the idle was either 500 or 3000 depending on where it
settled after the last time I pushed on the pedal.

So I fixed up the linkage, adjusted the idle mixture per Bentley, checked
the charging voltage (12.95... too low. I'll fix those two wires and if
nothing good comes of it, I'll be replacing the alt most likely.)

I crawled back underneath to check everything else. The !(-at-)#$%(-at-)$#^& dipstick
boot had come loose and was spraying oil all over. Turns out it tore when I
put it back on and I just didn't notice. Sigh. Just one more thing to spend
$$$ I don't have on.

Take it for a spin after the carb adjustment. Completely gutless. Worse at
full throttle than partial. I get back home and check the timing, but it's
still right on 8* btdc. I pinch off the vacuum line, no change at all. Hmm.
I need to do a disconnected full advance test but with the muffler not
sealing I'm leary of doing it here at home. Maybe when it cools off a bit
I'll go to the gas station or something and do it.

During the teardown I discovered (or realized is more accurate) that I'm
missing 3 pieces of tin. The forward pieces that curve down from the engine
compartment to the heat exchangers, and the passenger side one. I'm also
missing several seals, including the one over the alternator adjusting bolt
and the oil pressure sender.

I'm really frustrated and still not 100% after having the flu earlier this
week. So I'm hiding in my air conditioned apartment for a bit.

--
Don
