From: jbrush(-at-)aros.net
Date: Thu, 08 Sep 2005 17:48:10 -0600
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Rebuilding motor

Hi all,

Here is a question with no definite answer, but I am figuring that folks
who have done it, would have some perspective.

I have rebuilt  V8/V6 motors (in the past, not last month <g>) I'm no pro,
but there is no mechanical part of vehicle that I haven't been in and out
of many times, and I am not intimidated by such things.

Then again, I am not braggin, as many know more than I do, but I get by
better than most folks. What I want to know is, can I rebuild my 81 air
cooled engine myself? Got tools that most have, and a few fancy ones, but
never did an AC engine, so I have no specific VW tools, and I respect the
fact that they are probably a bit less forgiving than a big old V8 with
regards to clearances, etc.

I read Muir's book on VWs, and didn't see enough dark details to
completely convince me. I have been through many web sites, and am
considering a book I just found on rebuilding air cooleds. Don't need more
than the original 67 (62?) HP, just want my van for traveling around,
nothing special. Bottom line would be, is it that deep, dark, and
specialized, or will I get it out of the van, stick it on a support of
some kind, and be able to do the work without hundreds of dollars worth of
VW specific tools? From reading some posts here and on vanagon.com, only a
chosen few have what it takes to do it right, while others say its a walk
in the park....

Seems like I would buy pretty much most parts new, or quality rebuilt.
Doubt there is much left after 150K worth reusing, but then again, I don't
know that for sure. Haven't researched all of that yet. My local mechanic
told me about  around $2K for him to do it, but we didn't do details on
what parts get reused, etc. Winter is coming up, so I am trying to
convince myself that I can do it <g>

As I said up front, impossible question, as everyone's skill levels are
different, but I would like to hear from folks who have done this in their
garage, without all the special tools, and without any previous AC
experience, as to how it turned out.

I know that Stan W has at least one engine that he offered for sale, could
be more such beasts out there, so that is an option as well. Just want to
understand all my choices.

Thanks a lot,

John
