Date: Fri, 9 Sep 2005 21:21:20 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Adventures in Starters

A few weeks ago my Kragen $60 starter started not starting. Just
occasionally, like when it was hot. So, being that I paid extra for a
lifetime warranty, I started looking for the (-at-)#$#%^& receipt. I found it
last week. Oddly enough, it was in the glovebox! Right where it should be,
and the last place I looked!

Well, today after work it decided to stop starting altogether. The motor
would spin, but the solenoid wouldn't kick. Repeated venting of frustration
by banging on the solenoid with a large crescent wrench did not help.

Got some coworkers and push started it.

Went straight to Checker (Colorado's version of Kragen) and left it running
while I went inside. I flashed my receipt and warranty papers and asked if
they would honor it. Yes, assuming it fails on the tester. Do they have one
in stock? Computer says yes. Can you visually verify so I don't pull my
starter for nothing? Yep. Right here. Sweet.

20 minutes later I walked back in with the starter. They put it on the
tester. After a few minutes consulting each other, the two counter guys came
back and told me the tester doesn't work on that starter. They don't have a
plug doohickey for it. I was tempted to go show them how to work it, but
figured the stupid thing would work for them so decided to let them think
the tester only works on new cars. ;-)

They handed me a starter. "What am I supposed to do with this toy?" The
starter was like 4 inches shorter than the one I handed them, even though
both of them had the same sticker on them with a part number. "I dunno, it's
what the computer says..." Whatever. I look at the part number stamped on
the housing. The VW number started with 311... LOL! "You guys know you just
handed me a starter originally made for a squareback?" Blank stare. Sigh.
The armature length and the teeth looked like a match so I figured I'd use
it for now.

20 minutes later I'm in the driver's seat cursing. The solenoid was kicking
the starter, but the motor wasn't turning! !)!#(*(-at-)$&(!(-at-)*&^$(*!#&^%&

I storm back into the store and explain what happened. The guys are
incredulous, assuming I'm an idiot. Well, I am, but still. One grabs some
fancy tester doohickey and comes out with me. Of course it starts to rain.
Of course.

I already had my remote starter hooked up because I couldn't believe even MY
luck is that bad. He asked me to read the CCAs off the battery (650) and
hands me the leads. I think he was afraid the Great White Bus might bite him
or something. I hook them up. "Your battery is at 50%" Yeah, I know, I'm
having charging issues right now. But in this temperature it should be
plenty to turn the starter. He then has me try to start it. I just pulled
the trigger on my remote. "Yep, according to this your car is running." Darn
quiet for a VW I'm thinking... "Well, we can tell you where another Checker
that has your starter is located.." My response is obvious, "And how am I
supposed to get there?" He ponders for a moment then shrugs.

A flash of inspiration: "Well, we have one good motor that would spin but
the solenoid wouldn't kick out. And we have one good solenoid with a motor
that wouldn't turn. How about we swap 'em?" He agreed and so I pull out the
"new" starter and head back in. 15 minutes of fumbling (I've never taken a
starter apart before, and I doubt he has either), and I have a hopefully
functional starter.

20 minutes later I'm in the driver's seat grinning. I'll be darned if it
didn't work! Woo Hoo!!!

Quick clean up of tools and I'm outta there. . .

Moral of the story? Buy a good starter to begin with. What a pain this
was...

--
Don
