From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Sep 2005 20:03:34 -0700
Subject: Jerome Jamboree Report & Questions

Just pulled into my drive after returning from the "Jerome Jamboree". What a
wonderful experience! This was my first time to a bus rally, and I GOTTA do it
again! The weather was great except for a bit of wind on Friday, kinda makes
things rather dusty but that's way better than mud. Met lots of wonderful
people including Al Brase (hope I spelled it right). Haven't seen him on the
list lately but he gave me some good advise in the past and is a great guy in
person.

I enjoyed the raffles, games, and entertainment. Arizona Bus Club KNOWS how to
put on a rally! My compliments.

A little constructive criticism for the attendees, if I may. I am not
professing that any clubs or organizations need to institute any rules (I
don't like rules) or pointing any fingers, but PLEASE, keep your dogs on a
leash. A little incident happened that is in no way the fault of the dog
owner, considering that their dog jumped out a partly open window and blind
sided my leashed dog at full speed. No injuries resulted and both dogs are ok.
Dogs will do, what dogs do. (I think there's a pun in there somewhere) I feel
the owners of the other dog had taken sufficient precautions having their dog
inside their bus, and I expected no apology from the owner, although it was
given by the young man who retrieved his dog. The problem was that after the
incident my dog got really nervous and nippy. Other happy, friendly, tame,
good natured pooches would come to greet my dog after this and my now grumpy
pup would bark or snap at them causing me to spend Lot's of time keeping an
eye out for approaching unleashed dogs and reining in or picking up my dog to
prevent her from doing any harm. Dogs should be allowed to run free now and
then, especially some of those loveable party dogs, but please, let them run
out in the woods or desert with friends they are familure with. I hope no one
takes offence to my rant because none is intended. Well, enough of that. Too
Many good things happened to dwell on this.

My 80 Vanagon ran great! Am I happy or what! Although Jerome is only about 80
miles from Flagstaff, there are some challenging inclines in both directions.
CHT barely got above 350 going up the north side of Mingus Mountain and stayed
at 350 or slightly below going up the switchbacks in Oak Creek Canyon.

Some Advise Please. I've read lots of good teachings here about climbing hills
and mountains with our air cooled engines but can't remember seeing anything
about going down the same roads. Here in the southwest there are a number of
state highways and back roads that snake their way up and down some steep
grades. It It never occurred to me to ask about this until descending from
Jerome. The speed limit is around 30, slowing to 20 or 25 on the turns, much
slower than the angle of the asphalt makes your bus want to go. I simply down
shifted for some engine braking as I would in any other vehicle and that
seemed to work fine, then, bang, babang, bang! WHAT'S THAT! 8~o Oh yeah, I
forgot to put the drain cap back on the sink drain pipe and it was swinging
around and hitting the bottom of the floor. 8~) No big deal but it made me
think, does prolonged engine braking have any bad effects on a F.I. 2 liter
engine? Any thought on this? I'm a conservative driver in my busses cause I
want them to last forever.

And question #2. Has anyone any advise on un-sticking one of the burner
control valves on a Westy stove? The left hand burner will not rotate from the
off position. It does allow me to press it in but refuses to turn. I even
removed the knob and gently tried some pliers thinking the knob was not
pushing the shaft in far enough to allow it to rotate, but this was not the
remedy.

If you have read this far, THANKS TO ALL OF YOU! Without type2.com I wouldn't
be this excited, exhausted, happy and relaxed after such a great rally.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know
