Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 17:27:35 -0800 (PST)
From: Mike West <mwest@cdsnet.net>
Subject: Re: Distributor Cleaning, Advice needed

>My '80 Westi has a flat spot in the acceleration at about 30 mph in 
>second gear (CA engine with Hall effect distributor).   I'm thinking that
the distributor 
>needs to be *cleaned* and *lubed*, can't hurt to do it.   Any advice on the
following would be greatly appreciated.
>
>How far to dismantle?
>What to clean with?
>What to lube with and how?
>Other things to check, watch out for?

>- Jeff


  Jeff, I've overhauled a few so I guess that makes me an expert.

 You have to get below the point plate at least. That's where the 
little counter-weights are.

 To just take the point plate out there is a screw inside the housing.
If it's a vacuum advance you have to take a spring clip(tiny) off the
pin where the vac. unit arm connects to the point plate.

 Remove the vacuum pot from the side. Then you take the plate off that
holds the little ball bearing. See it?

 Then there is that little braided wire that goes from the point plate to
the housing.
 Be real careful with it. It's the ground for you points circuit.
It screws to the housing also.

 This then is the point plate( the plate the points are mounted to)
and it just sits in there and swivels on some washers between it and the sub
plate. The sub-plate is screwed to the housing.

 There are about 3 sets of washers along the shaft, one in each set is a
fiber washer that needs replaced.

 That's for up and down slop.

 It's all so clear, right?  :-)  you'll see when you examine it.

 If your shaft isn't sloppy don't bother removing the shaft.

 Put a few drops of oil in each of these washer assemblies

 To remove the shaft, there is a dowel pin in the foot that engages 

the engine gear. 

 OK now that I've screwed you all up, we get to the little counter- 
weights. 

 First clean, clean, clean. Probably spray carb cleaner or the like.

 Check their movement and oil the pivot points with a drop of oil
Take a look at the springs. Sometimes they are almost cut in two from
rubbing on things.

 The springs and the weights must not rub on anything.

 Lubrication is a drop of oil on every pivot point. No more.

 You really should look at the exploded photo the Bentley has of this
little night-mare.

 Up in the end of the main shaft is a felt piece which is also a lube
point. Soak it but don't choke it.

 When you put it back together watch out for the screws touching any
thing else like the floating point plate. It will stop it moving.

 That's about it. Put it all back together checking for movement etc.
at every step of the way.

 Keep the oil to aminimum. Use something like the sewing machine oil
in the squirt can. It's about 10 wt.

 There is a washer kit for rebuilding available from the flaps.

 I apologize for lack of clarity here.

 west
