Date: Fri, 10 Jan 1997 23:26:53 -0800
From: Mike West <mwest@CDSNET.NET>
Subject: Non-sequitur VW fluff

 Went down to Medford, 30 miles away. actually it's more than 60 for
a round trip.  Any of you notice how it can be farther in one direction than
the other? That's what the signs say.

 Went to the "Not so local FLAPS". Needed the swivel foot adjusters.

 Someone who shall remain nameless but who's initials start with Bob
 suggested I put them in. In fairness, it's my decision no-one elses.

 While passing by the "Truck Stop", I see this big sign.

 "Economy Special, Oil Change $99.95" That's for trucks.

 Now you know why the freight is so high.

 Still it made me feel warm dowm in my "good spot".  :-)

 Got the lifters and had a chat on various, freight for instance.
 Told "him" we called them "flaps" and it's meaning.

 We also talked about the "List" and whether he should get on the "Net".
He, like many, is computer illiterate.

 Got my "senior discount", that's where I threaten him with a heart-
attack right on his premises if I don't get it wholesale.  :-)

 I'll get into the installation when I do the rest of the VTG stuff.

 Came with 8 shims tho. Still may not be enough on these heads.

 On the way back, I stopped at "Brothers" , as in "family".

 He's always good for "grounding" oneself back to reallity.

 He's out working on the VW van.

 He does everything wrong and they still run.

 No therm-flaps in shroud. In fact it hasn't been too long ago that I
told him about them. He actually called Bergman to verify that.

 So he decided it was running too cold and put a "power pulley" on.

 Slow the fan down etc.

 Oil blows out all over, it's a mess. No crankcase ventilation at all.

 It has the type 1 tin on it so there are huge areas open to the road
all around the engine.

 I suggested he at least take it down and blow the dirt off.

 He says it helps keep it warm, he'll do that in the Spring.

 He's wiping the "mayonaise" out of the filler cap.  :-)

 Carburetor is off a  Ford something, picked it up at a junkyard.

 Has a little beer can size paper filter on it that looks about 3/4
plugged. I suggested he replace it. He looked and declared it "fine".

 In Baja maybe.   :-)

 He does have an external filter on it, but it ties in where the oil
cooler is supposed to be and there is no external cooler.

I told him about my "Rocker" problems and he laughed . Far as he's
concerned, if it goes "click-click, it's in good shape.

 Some comment about hobbies becoming a religion.  :-)

 This engine he has in there is the same case he towed across the
State of Arizona in first gear.  Total melt-down. Warped bad.

 He took the case and stuck the crank and cam back in with some old
bearings, pulled it closed within a 1/2 inch and stuck it in the oven
at 450 degrees. About 4 hours later he pulled it out and finshed
pulling it closed with the bolts and stuck it back in for another 4
hours.

 The smoke from the oiley case ran them clear out of the house for
several hours.

 He says it's a great way to clean cases.

 Then he had the crank journals line-bored, the cam bearing saddles
he just left. It was cranky at first when he re-assembled but it wore
in.

 He has 27,000 miles on this engine now and he loves it.

 I headed on home with a different perspective of VW's.  :-)

 For gods sake don't try any of this stuff yourself.

 I personally couldn't get 5 miles down the road with that kind of
action.


 west







