Date: Sun, 29 Dec 1996 12:39:22 -0800
From: Mike West <mwest@cdsnet.net>
Subject: Re: oil stuff

I asked Dave if I could post this to the list. He was agreeable.

Some of you may find it interesting. It was -12 degrees F when this
happened.
west . .
 --  - - - - - - - - - - - - -


>Wow... well, I realize I am a <snip> for driving after the light came on.
> But, but, it was only a little bit....  SMACK, from across the room, his
>conscience throws the Muir.
>looking for the hole?  where it probably came out.  Just so I get this right,
>there are several of these little plugs that could blow if the pressure
>relief valve isn't working?     Also, should I just not drive her in that
>cold of weather?  use different oil then 40 weight?  Let it warm up longer?
>Oh yeah.. is there any reason that the little plug thing that I found on the
>road should smell like gas?
>
> I thank you for your time, Mr. West, and will no longer page down past your
>stories about the high seas.  :)    Just kiddng... take it easy.
>
>Dave Decker, Jr.
>
>- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

  First, where is the hole. The oil galleys run front to rear in
 several locations.

 Open the back of the van and get in there with a flashlight.

 You may need an inspection mirror too.

 I expect it's a back one because the front ones would likely be
 trapped in the bell-housing.

 There are at least three on the left, just recessed holes with a
plug down in them. And I believe two on the right side.

 I suspect and sincerely hope it was a right side. Hopefully the one
to the cam followers. The light would never have gone out if it were
a left one.

 At least one of the left and rights are down behind the pulley.

 You know none of this is too relative since the only decent way to
fix it is drop the engine. Might do in place if it's open tho.

 It smelled like gas because the rings let a certain amount run past
them when you flood it and it just goes in the oil. Cold weather thing.

 You could have a leaky fuel pump too.

 Using 40 wt oil at -12 degrees F. is like using peanut butter.

 The pressure relief was probably working fine, it has to put some
oil thru no matter how thick.

 Assuming you're in the lower 40 states, probably 10w-30 would be
better. Go back to 40wt only in the hottest summer months.

 Longer warm-ups are also a necessary. Like 10 minutes or more.

 You don't want warm-ups etc. get a heater plate that goes on the oil
cover and plug it in on cold nites.

 If you don't have your thermostat flaps operating get to work on it.

 In honesty, I've never even heard of one of those plugs popping out,
so the blame is only partly yours, I would think.

 In the meantime, look at the bright side, you're about to get a cram
course in v-dubbin that money can't buy.  :-)

 Hope you don't have to work in the driveway.  :-)

 Would you mind my posting this to the list, that we may
save others from a similar fate. Thus turning your defeat into an act
of Nobility?  :-)

  west

