Date: Fri, 3 Jan 1997 23:57:06 -0800
From: Mike West <mwest@CDSNET.NET>
Subject: Rust and Carbon, solvent for . . . .

I was off the net for a couple days. . . . .

weather and pestilence etc.

The one phone line out of Grants Pass got broke.

I see you going thru all sorts of advice on how to get rid of rust
and another on how to get the carbon out.

I'll celebrate my return by revealing another Military Secret of
how to do in rust and carbon.

In the Navy we do what are called "Water sides" and "Fire sides"
of boilers. Heavy rust and heavy soot/carbon deposits.

Sodium Metasillicate pentahydrate and IGAPAL mixed with the
baddest solvent around.

This solvent will actually dissolve steel.

It will dissolve rocks. It been known to reduce mountains into
mole-hills.

The chemical formula is H4O2 and I will be happy to send you buckets
of the stuff for only $12.95 plus S&H.

The other stuff (sodium . . .) is an ionic surfactant which aids
in the process of dissolution.

To increase solubility and absorption you just add heat.

Now supplies are limited so send your cash today.

If I get to short on the sodium meta. . . stuff, I'll do what we
used to do in the gun and canoe club.

Run down and buy some Trisodium Phosphate.

Another good formula was the solvent and Citric Acid.

If you use the citric, when you dump the solvent, you have to
rinse much much right now. This will coat the bare steel molecules
with a layer of hydrogen.

The above was for the water sides and rust.

For the fire sides and carbon we just used hot solvent and let it
dissolve the steel under the carbon and it would peel right off.

Carbon is a tuffy even for the universal solvent. Six bonds are
hard to break.
It will dissolve but very slow. Even better with the surfactant.

The addition of heat makes all this happen fairly rapidly.

For those of you too poor to send me your money and this does not
apply to you stingy dudes, just use soap and water.

Wait till I tell your mother you didn't know that soap and water
were the best solvent in the world for rust and carbon.

How do you heat the water? Well I used to stick a steam hose in it.

Not too handy at your house? Well build a fire under the thing.

Rinse well when you're finished and dry soon.

No, water does not make rust. Oxygen makes rust.

west     only gone 2 days, mumble mumble . . . . .




