Date: Wed, 15 Oct 1997 11:36:34 -0700
From: Mike West <mwest@CDSNET.NET>
Reply-To: Air-Cooled Volkswagen Discussion List <VINTAGVW@SJSUVM1.SJSU.EDU>
To: Multiple recipients of list VINTAGVW <VINTAGVW@SJSUVM1.SJSU.EDU>
Subject: Re: head studs jam, preheater pipe 'n rockers

>Yet another Q!!
>I want to put on some new seals for the pushrods on cylinders 3&4. In
>undoing the head nuts three of the studs came out of the case as the nuts
>were pretty well rusted onto the studs. Please tell me this is no big deal.
>Should I just tighten them back up as they are or will I treat and remove
>the nuts, clean up the threads, screw the studs back in then torque down
>the nuts. This sounds better, but how do you get the studs in? How do you
>know when they're in enough?
>
>Jeff
>66 Aussie Beetle
>Marvin the Revbug (DRIVER)
>... Gross Fahrvergnugen!!!


  Ok, . . yeah the studs come out sometime.

 Put two nuts on the other end and jam them together, this will give
you something to work against to get the other nut off.

 When you have them all off, wirebush the stud . Paint if you like.

 If the stud goes into the case with an open end, you need some thread
sealant on the threads that go into the case. About half of them do.

 So get some Aviation 3H or whatever is your favorite and apply to the
threads entering the case whether it needs it or not.

 There are two numbers to look at when installing.
First, it should be the same height as the other studs which match the
deck in the head and are just high enough for the nut and washer.

 Second thing is you can torque it in to as much as 18 lb-ft into the
case saver.

 - - - - - -  -

 Rocker Arm Question: how much should you torque the locknuts on the
valve adjusters.

 Most of us have our special "adjusting wrench" when we get down there.

 We never tighten more than that wrench can handle so we can get it loose
next time.
My own calibrated 6 inch wrench puts 18-20 lb-ft of torque on those
lock nuts.

 - - - - - - - - - -

 Third question, how do I get the soot out of my preheater pipe?

 You take a combination of tools of destruction and go after that
puppy.

 Beat on it with a hammer in the areas plugged will knock some loose.

 Heat it and beat it with a hammer helps. . .  .

 Heat it and pour water down the pipe creates a nice affect and gets
some more.

 Soaking it in water will also loosen the carbon up..

 Finally a mechanical method using a piece of clutch cable in an
electric drill and run the frayed end up the pipe like a flex drill
is also said to work.


 west

Re: head studs jam, preheater pipe 'n rockers
