From: <steelersbus36(-at-)atlanticbb.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 07 Feb 2006 21:30:01 -0500
Subject: A Steeler fan's view of SB XL calls

Let me start by saying that the refs did do a horrible 
job. Their calls did lean towards the Steelers. BUT, 
Seattle did PLENTY to shoot theirselves in the foot.

1st questionable penalty: The touchdown by Jackson. Both 
players were putting hands on each other while going down 
the field. If Jackson would have just made his cut, it 
would not have been called on either player. BUT, Jackson 
extends his arm while his hand is on Chris Hope. That was 
a legal and good call. This was in the 1st quarter with 2 
minutes left. There were 47 minutes left in the game. it 
was not a game changing call.

The play when Ben scored: The ball did cross the white 
line. All the ball needs to do, is break the white line. 
Not pass over. Yes, it was the slimmest of margins, BUT 
the ball crossed and then came back because of the hit he 
took.(which was on his arm) That play was on a 3rd down. 
We had the ball at the 3 on 1st. Got two yards with the 
Bus on 1st. Got another half yard(18") on 2nd. Ben made 
the run on 3rd. IF, IF , IF, it did not cross. It would 
have been at the .000001" of the goal line. That ball 
would have been placed literally less than an inch from 
the goal line. In ALL the run plays that the Steelers ran 
that night, ONE LOSS of yardage. ALL 32 other runs went 
FORWARD. We are known for going for fourth down in those 
situations. We would have put the ball in the endzone on 
4th. So, that play...NOT game changing.

2nd and 3rd questionable penalties:  The play where 
Hasselbeck threw a pass to the 1 and it was called back 
for holding. The was a questionable call. Overall it was 
bad. But if you watch, you can see that the hawks lineman 
keeps his hand around Clark Haggans' neck too long. Refs 
brought the ball back and then Hasselbeck threw an 
interception. Getting called for a low hit while making 
the tackle. NOW, this call is the ONLY blatant bad call. 
It was in no way a bad hit. Bad call, yes. But did it 
cause him to throw a interception? NO WAY! Just an example 
of what they could have done. Take the AFC game in Denver. 
Steelers are lined up for a pass, make a change and Bettis 
runs 15 yards for a TD. Hines Ward is called for illegal 
shift...something that had NO effect on Bettis' run. We 
took the 10 yard loss and scored a TD on the next play. 
Those two calls in the SB combined were horrible and could 
have caused them a POSSIBLE TD. POSSIBLE, NOT guaranteed.

Now, lets say we give them back a TD up to this point. 
Score still is 4 pts in Steelers favor at end of game. 
4pts that COULD HAVE been made up by the hawks on TWO FGs 
that their kicker missed. Tell me how we were at fault for 
those TWO misses??

Also, the half ended with TERRIBLE clock management by 
Holmgren. Again, their own fault.

In the 3rd quarter, FAST WILLIE busted a 75 yard DASH!! 
Did the refs help that??

In the 4th quarter. We caught them with their pants down 
for a 43 yard trick play by Atwaan Randle El to Ward.

Now, some folks want to talk about Ben's bad stats. Yes, 
it was his lowest passer rating. BUT, Ben made HUGE plays 
when needed. Here's a few:

1. The HUGE play to convert 3rd and 28. Ben scrambled out 
of the pocket and patiently cat walked the srimmage line 
to make a 38 yard pass to Ward. If he doesn't make that 
play, we punt and he doesn't dive for the TD.

2. He ran for a 5 yard pickup to convert a 3rd and 2. The 
following play was the TD pass from Antwaan to Ward. He 
also coverted another 3rd down by running for 3 yards.

3. He made a BEAUTIFUL shovel pass to hines Ward to 
convert a 3rd down and 7.

  Ben converted 7 third downs with either HIS arm(5) or 
HIS legs(2).
Now, look at our 3rd down efficiency. 8for15. Ben 
converted ALL but ONE 3rd down.

Now brings point about the hawks. 5 for 17 on third down.

People want to say, "BUT the hawks won in total yardage, 
time clock and passing yards."  The last 5 out of seven SB 
winners won with LESS total yardage than the losing team. 
Big plays like the 43 yard pass and the 75 dash by Willie 
took just seconds. That's why they won with the clock. 
Hawks also controlled the clock for 12 minutes in the 1st 
quarter alone. Our first quarter was our worst 
defensively. Our D stepped up big in the 3rd and 4th 
quarters.

Their coach made HORRIBLE judgement calls throughout the 
game. None of that can be blamed on the refs. They had 
PLENTY of chances to overcome.

Of course you are going to hear about the calls that were 
questionable to help the hawks. BUT I saw at least three 
calls that were missed that helped seattle. Including a 
blatant head to head shot on a pass that was on third 
down. We then kicked it on 4th dwon. If called..automatic 
first down.

Another play you may want to think about:  The one where 
Hasselbeck was TOTALLY lucky that Larry Foote's fingers 
BARELY touched hasselbeck's jersey. The two left footed 
hasselbeck fell on a run and the ball caused a fumble. 
 Polamaulu then picked it up for a turnover. Foote's hand 
had NOTHING to do with hasselbeck falling. If Larry was 
lucky enough to have his fingers just one inch away....OUR 
ball on the hawks side of the field. It was LUCK that that 
happen for the hawks. It was the right call to over turn 
the fumble, BUT we all know that the hawks were lucky on 
that play.

I could ramble forever. I just wanted to show a few facts 
and numbers to back up where we are coming from.

Simply put, the MOST the hawks were robbed was 7pts. TOPS! 
They lost by 11.

I am open to ANY discussions. lol

PITTSBURGH STEELERS!! 2005 NFL CHAMPIONS!!
