Date: Thu, 31 Oct 2002 13:58:39 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Mick McQuilton <whoajesus(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: Oil temp sender in sump plate (was "Snake oil or real

On Wed, 30 Oct 2002, Mick McQuilton wrote:

> >Hmmm, just about every engine I have seen with an oil filter also has a
> >screen on the pickup.  Why should a type 1 with an added oil fiter not
> >need one?
>
> OK, I knew this would draw some ire ... as always, be your own mechanic. In
> the meantime here's an excerpt from the Gene Berg article I refered to in my
> first post, copied and pasted from his company's Web site:
>
> Oil strainer information. An area of extreme importance. The inlet or
> suction side of any pump is extremely limited in what it can do as compared
> to the pressure side and should never be impaired in any way, whereas the
> pressure side is capable of overcoming a great deal of extra resistance. For
> that reason, I have not used the stock oil strainer in any of my high
> performance street or race engines since 1966. I found that it often caused
> too much restriction on the suction side of the oil pump with a little
> higher performance and high RPM engines.

Note the "higher performance and high RPM" bit.  He isn't talking about
stock bus engines here.

Gene Berg has some good ideas, but he isn't infallable.  If you add up the
area of all the holes in the oil strainer and compare that area to that of
the oil inlet you'll find that the strainer area is many times that of the
inlet.  To be sure, you would have to instrument the pump inlet to measure
the supposed pressure loss, but I think that the inlet itself accounts for
more loss than the screen.  In fact, the screen may well have a function
of keeping oil flowing smoothly to the inlet,  The strainer is a rather
complex part and I doubt that VW went to that much trouble for nothing.

> Some concern about metal
  particles going into the oil pump before filtering was solved when I went to
  the farm supply house and bought a "cow" magnet that is about 1/2" round by
  3" long. I hose clamped it on the outside of the pickup tube extension for
  the larger sump.

A lot of the metal that comes loose inside the engine isn't ferrous.  The
magnet won't catch a chip of piston skirt or a flake of bearing material

> Your points are good ones, George. What you're doing works for your engine
  (and peace of mind) and that's what matters. But, if we agree that you
  shouldn't drop a bolt into your engine, then neither of us should need the
  oil strainer. There is, I admit, always a chance of a piece of metal getting
  pulled up into the pump but let's face it, if that happens you've already
  got some problems. If it fits through the pump, the filter will catch it, if
  not, new oil pump. But then you'd probably be taking the case apart anyway
  to find out where that honking chunk of steel/aluminum/babbit metal came
  from, right?

Well, it's a matter of philosophy.  I'd rather pull an engine apart to fix
the broken piston skirt or whatever and not have to replace the oil pump
and possibly bearings if bits of metal managed to bypass the oil filter
when the engine is cold.  I'm also not convinced that the oil screen
doesn't have a flow-forming function as well as a straining function.  You
might be gaining 5% more flow without the screen, but losing 90% of flow
if the pickup becomes uncovered in some operating regime.

There are very few parts on a bus that are without value.  Kettering's law
was observed more by VW than by any other manufacturer.  I have to have
solid instrumented evidence that leaving a part off is advantageous before
I would risk doing so.

George
