Date: Thu, 31 Oct 2002 18:24:57 -0800
From: "Hal Landvoigt" <hal(-at-)sitespecific.net>
To: <Ceebers24mVB(-at-)aol.com>
Cc: "Type 2 (E-mail)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fiberglass Pop-top/high-top paintable?

I have a pop top (71) but I think the same principles I applied to my roof
should apply here.  I've mentioned it before but I used the RustOleum
Professional enamel (link:
http://www.rustoleum.com/product.asp?frm_product_id=48&SBL=1) and got great
results considering the lack of effort I put into the job.  I sanded the whole
roof with a palm sander and 220 grit sandpaper to break loose the old paint,
and simply brushed it on with $0.69 disposable brushes.  2 coats did the
trick.  Its very thick paint so you want to work in a warm area to allow the
brush marks to flow out and leave a smooth finish.  If you've got any major
cracks in the fiberglass, Bob Hoover had a good post on ramva on how to deal
with these. The short story is that you grind out a groove along the crack and
then slowly fill it in with layers of fiberglass that is cut to fit.  A final
layer of a very fine weave fiberglass tape and a little glazing putty and you
won't be able to tell that it even was cracked.  This technique is similar to
how you patch the cracks in a plaster wall.  For some of the smaller crazing,
you can simply smear in the glazing putty with your thumb and then sand it out
once its cured.  The most difficult part of the process is ensuring that your
painting environment is as dust free as possible.  If you use the power sander
its going to create a LOT of dust, so you're going to want to wait a few days
for the dust to settle (if you're working indoors) and then wipe down the roof
with a piece of cheesecloth wetted with mineral spirits (aka, a tack cloth) to
get all the fine particulate matter off the roof before you paint it.  The
paint cures to a very high gloss and is hard as nails.  I've used it now on
the poptop, floor and bumpers of my westy with great success.

Hal Landvoigt
