Date: Fri, 1 Nov 2002 11:17:36 +0000 (GMT)
From: wallace.bob(-at-)btinternet.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Gas Tank Suck

Hi John, 

You are right, metal lines attached to the top of the tank that go up into the air intakes and back down into the engine compartment are for tank ventilation / pressure relife, and you should not be getting the sound of air being sucked in when the fuel filler cap is removed. 

The tank is out it would be a good time to check that the vent lines are not blocked. 

After coming down from the air intakes the two breather tubes meet together in the roof of the engine compartment, in the middle right at the back. They should join at a T peice, the third arm of which is connected to the air filter (this is so that fuel vapour vented from the tank is burnt by the engine and so that only clean air is sucked into the tank) 

It may be as simple as someone has joined the two ends together because the T piece is broken or replace the air filter thought that connection unnecessary and blocked it off. 

Connect a piece of tubing to the ends of the vent lines where they join and BLOW down it (don't suck because you may inhale fuel vapour). If you cannot blow through then investigate replacing the lines. This could be as simple as running a new fuel grade line alongside of the existing vent lines, but it must go up into the air intakes substantially above the top of the tank to prevent the fuel draining into the engine via that route. 

Good luck 
Bob Wallace 
Bristol UK 
1998 T2 

> First of all, while camping a few months ago I hear a 
> sound coming from the tank area, like a gurgling sound, continued all night. 
> I hear this sound on other occasions 
> after parking the bus. Secondly, I have been noticing air pockets in my fuel 
> line and specifically, the clear fuel filter actually runs dry sometimes while 
> driving. Thirdly, everytime I fill up with gas, the gas cap really hisses alot 
> when I take it off due to suction inside the tank. 
> So what the hell? Should my fuel tank really be so air tight that the fuel 
> being pumped out of it is creating a suction inside the tank enough to suck in 
> the walls and account for my multiple leaks? Is the tube coming out of the top 
> of the tank and going up into the side vent area suposed to be a breather line 
> to relieve such suction? > 
[...] 
