Date: Fri, 01 Nov 2002 09:32:33 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [Fwd: Re: [T2] Need advice on California SMOG for 1977 Bus]

> My three choices are:
>   1) sell at to a person cheaply after I fully
> disclose my problems with the exhaust system

I don't think you can legally sell a car in CA without it passing smog..
or maybe if you sell it non-op.. I dunno..


>   2) buy another van for parts

nah, your problems aren't that bad.  Might as well buy new parts if you
plan on keeping it


>   3) fix the van and try to pass smog

Here's where you gotta sit back and think real hard how much you really
want a bus.  For me, I'm on my 3rd bus, 2nd engine, and I'm just having
a blast.  Granted, your pocketbook has to support the expenses, too, but
remember, you're not making payments (hopefully), and your insurance
should be low, so it's kinda worth it.. plus, it's a bus!

Anyways, cheesiness asside, let's look at your list of stuff that you
need to get to pass smog.  Cat depends on if it's a CA or federal bus. 
If it's no a CA bus originally, then you're not required to have a Cat,
although, it may help with emmisions.  In regards to the exhaust system,
I doubt they care whether or not you have the correct heater tubes,
j-tubes, etc.. they just want to see the correct emmisions (they've
never checked mine..).  Exhaust gasket set.. yeah, if you change your
whole exhaust, you'll probably want that to avoid any leaks which would
throw the tests, but like I just said, you might not need to do anything
with the exhaust if it's not leaking.  Functioning EGR system, yes, that
will help you because it lowers the NO levels.  Plus, it keeps your head
temps down.  For that, you will need some kind of tap off of the exhaust
(this is where a stock muffler would come in handy, but that can be
welded by someone too).  From that you go to the egr filter and then
into the engine bay and then you'll need the pipe that runs over to the
manifold where the egr valve sits.  You'll probably have to clean out
your egr valve because it gets caked with crap.  As far as the charcoal
filter, yeah, they do check for that.. If you don't care about the
environment, go find one out of an old bus and put it in there and plug
some hoses into it.. they don't look at it very hard.. they just need to
make sure it's there.  If you do care about the environment, you'll have
to source that one from somewhere.  In regards to the heater system,
smog people could care less about that.

I went through CA smog hell so I know what you're up against.  That is
also one of the reasons why I am converting my fuel injection system to
a DIY system called MegaSquirt (go to google.com and type megasquirt). 
That way I can tune the FI at any RPM instead of trying to adjust that
stupid spring in the AFM.

btw, where in CA are you?

mike

-- 
[...]
