From: "Volksfix" <volksfix(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "TYPE 2 LIST" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 1 Nov 2002 13:48:32 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] the tornado, does this thing work

> On Thu, 31 Oct 2002, Andrew Mueller wrote:
>
> > Have any of you seen the infomercials for a product
> > called the tornado, its a metal piece you put in your
> > air filter to make the air free flow better.
>

Hello Andrew,

    How's the old saying go, "You can fool part of the people part of the
time! You can fool part of the people, all of the time! You just can't fool
all the people all the time!"
    These guys play the odds, some uninformed people will buy anything at
least once. See it on TV, it must be gospel.
    Think about this, liquid fuel doesn't burn, only the vapors. With that
in mind, know that in a perfect world air flows through a carburetor venturi
where it draws fuel and it is vaporized, or is injected ( also in an
atomized state, as long as the injector are clean ) into the air flow of the
intake system. If every thing is prefect the ratio is 14.7 parts air - 1.0
part fuel. Now if the intake system has no curves, bumps, obstructions, then
this perfect air fuel mixture is drawn into the cylinder and fired, and
almost all the Entergy would be used to move the car, or what ever you were
trying to power. This 100% combustion would indeed be a "Perfect World".
    Now in the real world this mixture is moving at a fantastic speed, where
each and every turn, bump, miss aligned intake gasket, obstruction of any
kind, carbon build-up, or the ambiguous Tornado bell & whistle do-dad,
causes the fuel mixture to swirl, again at fantastic speed, where it can
actually cause the air and fuel to separate. When this happens the fuel will
gather at curves, obstructions, etc. and become liquid again. End result,
loss of volumetric efficiency = loss of power, mileage, etc.
    Bottom line, if you feel you must buy the Tornado, go ahead, just don't
put on your car! Put it in a real nice presentation case, and mount it on
your mantle. Where you can show it to all your friends, and tell them you
did your part to stimulate the economy in a resessionary time. Because
that's the only thing its going to do! :-) :-0

Tommy
Volkswagen Restorations USA
www.freeyellow.com/members7volksfix1/
