Date: Fri, 01 Nov 2002 12:22:33 -0800
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: craigoda(-at-)yahoo.com
Cc: Charles Watson <sbcwat(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Need advice on California SMOG for 1977 Bus

Charles Watson wrote:

>
>> Please help me collect information so that I can make
>> a decision of what to do with my newly-acquired 1977
>> VW Bus with emissions systems that have been heavily
>> modified by the previous owner.
>
>
> If your bus hasn't had to meet very strict smog specifications up to 
> now you may have to replace some rather hard to find and expensive parts.

If it is a FED model you are in much better shape. Fewer parts required. 
No filler neck, or cat on the '77 Fed model.

>
> Determine if your bus is 49 State(Fed) model or a California model. 
> The engine door should have the info written inside the lid.

Definately the first step. Mine is a Fed, and so is much easier to pass 
here in California. No restrictor or Cat required (though I added a CAT 
to help our precious environment).

My last time through I replaced the EGR filter, serviced the EGR valve, 
and bought the linkage you found in the glove box. However, I had prior 
to that replaced my cross over when I redid the heads as mine had a 
crack in the the size of my thumb. I only have to pass once more and 
then I am redoing all of the exhaust to get rid of the one year only 
cross over. Pretty much all shops will do a visual test for the EGR 
system, and some will test to see if the system is working. It is pretty 
much luck of the draw. They do this by disconnecting the linkage, and 
activating the valve. Idle should drop if the system is working okay.

Oh, and I don't think my smog guy looked at the charcoal filter 
canister. No matter where you go, try to talk to the tester, and let him 
know that you just bought it and are trying to keep it on the road 
without breaking the bank. A hardup story tends to make them a little 
more lienient.

> You mat have to find a crossover pipe (NLA) along with muffler, tail 
> pipe and other interconnecting hardware.

The crossover can be had for less than $200 used. When I was searching 
for new ones I paid $180 for a decent used one. While it won't last as 
long as getting a new one fabricated or finding a NOS one, it is not a 
part I intend to have on there forever. As long as it lasts until I 
don't have to pass SMOG any more I got a good deal.

> In addition you most likely will have to pull, clean and reinstall the 
> input air distributor to clear the EGR system.

If the pipe that connects from the engine tin to the EGR valve is not 
blocked off, you can check if your valve is working now by running the 
engine, and then moving the actuator on the valve to the center of it's 
travel range. (The valve is closed at idle, opens, and then is closed 
again at full throttle. If idle goes up then it is not clogged, and you 
may be able to get away with not servicing it.

> You can't pass CAL smog with a "tampered" fuel filler
> neck or a non sealing filler cap.

Again, if your bus is a FED model you are in much better shape as far as 
this goes. If I where you, I would start checking out junk yards looking 
for a '77 with a complete exhaust and try to buy it all together, as you 
will most likely get a better deal then sourcing individual parts. 
Definately replace the EGR filter though, as it gets all gummed up, and 
it is better not to send all that into your engine. You will have to 
pass smog one more time before your bus is grandfathered and then you 
can do whatever you want with it. (Assuming they don't change the law.)

If you do keep the van, get the right oil filter from Bus Depot or some 
such, and stop using the Fram POS filters. Your engine will thank you 
with a longer service life.

The blower tubes are not required to pass smog. However, since you are 
lacking heat exchangers you should definately plug up those holes in the 
tin to keep from loosing all your cooling air out the tin. If you do go 
back to stock exhaust, then the heat exchangers will plug up those holes.

Good luck, and let us know how it goes.

-Nick
'77 Riviera
'71 Project
