Date: Fri, 1 Nov 2002 17:15:38 -0800 (PST)
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Need advice on California SMOG for 1977 Bus

On Friday, Nov 01, 2002, at 08:31AM, Craig's mail <craigoda2(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

>Please help me collect information so that I can make
>a decision of what to do with my newly-acquired 1977
>VW Bus with emissions systems that have been heavily
>modified by the previous owner.

How did he pass?

>My three choices are:
>  1) sell at to a person cheaply after I fully
>disclose my problems with the exhaust system

It would be better to sell it to someone out of state if you go this route.

>  3) fix the van and try to pass smog

I think you'll have to wait until Karl chimes in for the definitive answer. ;-)

The first step as everyone else said is to check the labelling on the doorjam and the engine lid to see if it's says catalyst or non-catalyst model.  That will determine your need for a catalytic converter.  Also check the fuel filler neck as Charles suggested in case the labels disappeared.

If you're a non catalyst I would stick with the bus you're attached to and complete the exhaust work.  If not, don't panic, check around and make an informed decision.  You never know when someone will donate a part or help out our you luck out on a junkyard excursion.

It seems the only piece of the EGR system you are missing is the filter itself, minus the detached rod you found that needs to be connected.

If you don't need a cat, you can get an eliminator style exhuast for $80 at JCWhitney + shipping which will replace all the exhaust components minus the heater boxes and and with an EGR port will allow you to connect the filter to the tube that runs from the engine tin to the valve. You are getting what you pay for but it's the cheapest way to get the system functional.  I can't guarantee the fit of the exhaust hanger built in, or the angle of the EGR port but I do have it installed on my bus as proof that it's a viable alternative.

This eliminator is American made but it's much more:

http://www.oldvolks.com/CatTab0-NN4-NF/Item/?I=60

Check out your local VWFLAPS to see what they have.

The charcoal filter and tubes you'll find no problem in a junkyard.  I've seen tens of them over the six months I spent looking for the parts I needed.

My heart goes out to you.  I had the worst time getting my bus imported into the US because of regulations.  I'm now in CA and I haven't gone for my smog test yet but I'll be doing it once I put on my EGR filter and electronic ignition.

--
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Sunnyvale, CA
