From: " dwolf" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrog.com>
To: "Stephanie Butler" <perample(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 23 Aug 2007 21:58:40 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] re:advice please

You may have more life in that engine than you thought.
Accurate oil pressure reading is a good indication of bearing condition.
Put an oil pressure guage directly where your oil sender is located.
You may need some adapter fittings, and 1/8 ip pipe will work for that.
A compression test will tell you a lot about power output,
condition of piston rings and valves. Pretty simple diagnostic.
A leak-down test is used to further indicate where a problem may be
anticipated, but by that time the engine is coming apart anyway!
 Type 4 bottom ends ( crank and rods ) are quite robust,
and  can be renewed  inexpensively with simple bearing replacement
if the crank and rods are in spec, but this gets to be money if you don't do it
yourself for the simple fact it is a shop's income to sell you a rebuild.
They have learned how to measure stuff. Can you do that?
There's not a lot of mystery inside the engine case, either.
If you dare take a peek, there's plenty of list help to put it back together
If you can get the parts to a machinist, they will measure stuff pretty cheap
or probably free if you are paying for a $35 crank polish or having your
flywheel turned or the rods rebushed, etc.
A valve job and re-ring or replace p/c may be enough to get you years
of life, but you need to learn the engine or pay someone else who did.
Air-cooled cylinder heads are tricky and need to be done by someone
competent if you need valve seats or guides replaced, but you can and
should be able to  bolt them on and off yourself.
You can't go wrong repairing those oil leaks yourself.
It's a maintenance item you need to learn.
Unfortunately, the information you seek has been hidden for decades.
.......In books:)
.
----- Original Message -----
From: "Stephanie Butler" <perample(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Thursday, August 23, 2007 8:29 PM
Subject: [T2] re:advice please


> Thank you all very much for the help so far. I'm sure I will call upon you
> again soon. I think I'm going to try to repair the leaks myself. I'll be on
> the lookout for a "plan B" engine, and will probably do the  work over a
> long weekend, but yeah - I'll give it a go. I can plod along okay until the
> parts arrive.
