Date: Fri, 24 Aug 2007 18:23:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Busaru running hot: Episode 2

Okay, I still am not certain why, but the "new" engine
(new to me wrecking yard engine - 114k miles) was
running about 15-20 degrees hotter than the previous
engine. There were some "issues" such as a cambelt one
tooth off on the left cam which changed spark timing
on all by about 15 degrees retard. It also of course
changed the valve timing on the left bank.

After fixing all the little things like that, I was
still not satisfied, so I did a compression check and
got 200 / 205 on the right bank and 170 / 170 on the
left bank. I put a plug back in on the left bank and
tried again, suspecting a blown head gasket, but no
difference (stands to reason - as one goes up, the
other piston goes down.) Adding oil only made 10psi
difference on all 4.

I put a pressure gauge on one of my bleeder valves and
started the engine (cold) and within 3 minutes had
10psi which was the max on the gauge. I shut down the
engine and then loosened the radiator cap to get a big
bunch of bubbles into the recovery tank.

Next strep was drop the engine and pull the heads.
There was no noticeable place on the gaskets where it
had obviously been leaking, but the pressure had to
come from somewhere.

The heads were quite different in deck height but
otherwise in good condition. Northwest Connecting Rod
surfaced the heads to make them identical, checked the
guides, seals, lash adjusters, cleaned up the rockers,
and pronounced the heads as in very good condition.

We got to talking about the overheating and they
wanted to know if I'd checked the water pump. I
protested that when a pump goes out, it's the bearing
that goes and they agreed, but asked if I had checked
out the impeller. They told me that in their business
they see all kinds of water pumps and there is a lot
of difference between aftermarket brands. I went home
and took the water pump off that engine, then off the
previous engine, and had yet a 3rd one for comparison.
The previous engine's and it's original pump had vanes
in the impeller that were easily 10-15% larger than
the "new" engine's impeller. That could be the
dribbling water pistol I've been looking for!

Heads are back on, pieces are going together as time
allows, and I'm hopeful that the water pump from the
previous engine will solve my heat probs in the
current engine. With the heads done, I should be good
for 300 thousand miles before major work, if I take
care of it!

I'll let y'all know if I've solved the problem when I
get it back together next week some time! -BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
