Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2007 10:07:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Stephanie Butler <perample(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] re: re: advice please

Your current list of priorities apparently has at the
very 'end', rebuilding the engine because you are
depending on the bus for a daily driver. Personally, I
have always tried to get my hands onsomething that can
become a daily driver fot 2-3 weeks just in case I
need a little more time than the absolute minimum. If
you rebuild in a weekend, that means you have to
replace parts that you could have had machined and
renewed. Whereas sending your heads off to NWCR you'll
be out 2 weeks anyway. To change heads in a weekend
meand you have to buy new or rebuilts up front. A
weekend does not allow for splitting the case and
having the cam and crank inspected and polished by a
professional who does that day-in / day-out. (and so
on...)

Doing what you can to get by until then means stuff
that will not need to be RE-re-done when you rebuild
the engine. Stuff like new ignition points, rotor, cap
and spark plug wires in addition to the spark plugs
you apparently have already replaced. Have you
replaced the air filter element recently? How about
the gas filter? Those are all things that will help
tremendously and will transfer over to the rebuilt
engine.

As for leaks - Two things that you need to consider:
Oil runs down hill. The fan / cooling air blows loose
oil EVERYWHERE!! What looks like a pushrod tube leak,
if followed up-hill, looks like an oil cooler leak, if
followed up-hill, often turns out to be a leaking oil
pressure indicator light sender unit. (You can watch
these leak. They are directly forward of the
distributor. You can carefully pull the rubber "mouth
dam" out of the hole and see all!) The pushrod tube
seals may be leaking (and probably are) but I would
live with that since you're going to tear everything
down soon anyway. The oil dipstick tube has a bellows
around its lower part where the part you see, which is
attached to the fan housing, connects to the part that
is bolted to the engine case where trhe filler tube
is. That bellows fails and the oil blows everywhere
especially if you have a habit of ovrfilling the oil
or have steep up-hills. The oil cooler will need to be
cleaned and pressure tested when you rebuild, so
unless the bolts are loose, leave it for later. (When
you tighten those nuts, use a short wrench and hold it
with your fingers! In other words, it's delicate and a
big wrench with a hand wrapped around it exerts a lot
of crushing force!)

The loose oil filter was a major contributor to the
mess, but be sure to start at the top and look
downward.

The 4 tubes on top of the engine have only air flowing
through them.

The Lucas oil additive, Hilton Hy Per Lube, Power
Punch, and a few others increase viscosity. Hilton and
PowerPunch claim to be viscosity stabilyzers. At any
rate, they hold oil on metal surfaces better than the
oil alone and build a thicker film in loose spots
(Haven't looked through a microscope to back that one
up - just feel!) They actually do help. Be careful in
cold winters with thick oil, BTW. It doesn't want to
move real well.

If I think of more stop-gaps I'll write. -BaH

--- Stephanie Butler <perample(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

I've taken baby steps -
 10w30 oil is out, 20-50 is in, oil filter is
 changed, new spark plugs, 
 cleaned the oil sreen, took the tins off and had a
 look-see, and wiped down 
 the oily parts with baby wipes (they're great - I
 used to clean my butcher 
 tray with them when I was using oil paints.)
 
 I'll share pics when I can find the cord to the
 camera, but here's a summary 
 of what I found:
 The oil filter was really wet and too easy to
 unscrew!! It was on, but I 
 think there was a gap there. Everything around it
 was oily-ish. The tin next 
 to it was covered in sludge. Passenger's side tin
 was fine.
 There's a little oil seepage from the 4 central
 tubes at the engine top, and 
 it looks from the bottom like the push-rod tube
 seals are leaking. I had a 
 little bit of spray (a pththt) of the old oil out of
 the tailpipe when 
 starting it up after the new oil refill. None since,
  ...so far.
 #4 spark plug had a little white residue, #3 and #1
 were a little oily - not 
 much. #2 I can't remember 'cuz I dropped the blasted
 thing so many times 
 inside the tin - then had to get the new one in.
 Ugh!
 
 It's all back together, with the new oil - so we
 took it out for a drive 
 earlier tonight. the power is not what it used to
 be. That was true before I 
 touched it today. When beginning the drive, and upon
 a hard acceleration, we 
 have been making a cloud. Got home 1/2 hour ago -
 and the dipstick was still 
 hot, but all the oil is still there, ...so far. No
 difference in 
 'performance' from before - so the loose oil filter
 didn't matter.
 
 It has been in need of a timing adjustment, but it
 seems more so now - 
 idling low. If it's running too rich along with need
 of tune-up - that would 
 explain a bit.
 
 I don't have a compression check tool yet -  low
 compression results won't 
 be a surprise. I'll need to get a good atv jack or
 engine jack, and a few 
 more tools, then parts, then I can do more. I'm in a
 bind since this is the 
 one family car for the moment.
 
 Any red flags?
 
 Stef


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
