Date: Sun, 26 Aug 2007 23:06:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: oil viscosity additives

I'm not particularly alarmed by the demonstration! On
a high mileage engine I will continue to use viscosity
increasing additives. I am not familiar with Lucas and
should have not included it, but Hilton and PowerPunch
are what I have used for many years -in high-mileage
engines that have oil pressure problems otherwise. If
the oil was foaming with the additive, it would show
on the pressure gauge as foaming oil is compressable.
I would never add a high viscosity petroleum based
product to a synthetic product as in the test. He does
not specifically say one way or the other whether the
Delo 400 was their synthetic or their petrol based.
The gear oil test showed a comparison of an 80/90 vs
an 80/140? And the viscosity increaser was added to
the 80/140? Why? and why wasn't the test done with
petroleum based products? There's more, but my aim is
not to defend my opinion or to try to convert others
into thinking "my way" - only to point out that unless
you do your own tests and compare like items, and you
are comfortable with the tests and results - and of
course, have a masters degree in chemistry and
physics, that the demos to disprove are often as
misleading as the demos to prove! I just want that oil
pressure needle to stay on the high side until I can
get the bottom end rebuilt! When I rebuild an engine,
I always use a mixture of Hilton HyPerLube and oil as
my assembly lube. The parts can sit for years and
still have a coating of lubricant everywhere. -BaH


--
 
 http://www.bobistheoilguy.com/images/lucas/lucas.htm
 
 I was with ya man until you said they were good
 things. They're bad
 things. I doubt they would be good in ANY engine.
 Don't you think
 Penzoil/Mobil/Castrol would add that stuff if it did
 any good?
 >>Pennzoil? Candle wax? And if you search for
specialty additives from those manufacturers you'll
probably find some for special uses. What I started
doing when running Valvoline was to run their straight
SAE 60 oil and that worked pretty good to keep the oil
pressure up. Didn't help keep oil film on the bearing
surfaces after a long hard hot drive, though, so next
start up was with little oil distribution until
pressure got up. - BaH
 -- 
 Don
 http://www.donimages.com/guacamolebus/
 


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
