Date: Mon, 10 Jun 2002 14:43:46 -0700
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: bus  buying question

> Date: Thu, 6 Jun 2002 18:39:02 -0700 (PDT)
> To: type2(-at-)type2.com
> From: Miesha <moonbreeze21(-at-)yahoo.com>
> Subject: Re: [T2]  bus  buying question
>
> I want to thank everyone for their input. it is really
> helpful. i guess it would be a better deal for me to
> buy a bus that already has it's bits and pieces in
> tact. I didn't know about the title thing. i'm pretty
> green on buying and owning a car... this will be my
> first car and i have wanted a vw bus, sinc ei saw the
> mystery machine on scooby doo... back when i was still
> a young pup... so i'm really looking hard at finding
> my bus. any suggestions on where i should look? oh
> yeah, i live in Southern California.

I'd like to give you the other side of the coin from what you've heard so far.  You may not have the skills and connections to act on the Bus you've found but that doesn't mean
that Bus can't be resurrected.  About 5 years ago I treated myself to a birthday present of a '70 sunroof Bus that was advertised in the San Jose paper for parts.  I persuaded
the seller that this this Bus was too nice to cut up and he didn't want to go through the hassle of getting rid of the carcass and I got it for $200.  At the time it was
missing the engine and had been off the road since 1989.  I assumed the brakes would need to be completely redone (mostly new parts) and tires (Pick-n-Pull) and an engine
(rented from a friend for 2 years before getting my own) and I would be on the road.  Like you, I worried at first about the registration.  But it turns out that having a car
that's been off the road (in Calif.) for 5 or more years makes the process easier because its no longer on the books at DMV.  You don't even have to have a bill of sale.  The
only extra thing you have to do is take the vehicle to DMV so they can verifiy the VIN.

During the past 3 years that I've been driving the Bus I also put on new seat covers and replaced the lower ball joints but when everything is added up I have between $1000 and
$1500 into it.  It still needs a paint job and a headliner but up until now its been one of my most reliable vehicles.  Its been fun to work on and fun to drive and I'll miss
it.  For, my daughter talked me out of it and it has made the uneventful journey to Minnesota a couple weeks ago.  She plans to undercoat it this summer so hopefully it will
give her as much pleasure and serve her well for some time to come.

Like I said at the beginning, this route may not be for you, but I'm sure there are others on the list who have been into Volkswagens for awhile and may be ready for a
challenge like this.  The one word of advise I have is to start with a solid vehicle (import it from California) so that it will be worth your time when you are done and you
don't have to spend a ton of time and money on bodywork when you are done with the mechanicals.

--
Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org
www.fraternaltwins.homestead.com
Oo\ /oO


