Date: Mon, 28 Apr 2003 19:16:43 -0500
From: "The Johnson's" <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
To: Buskatiers <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, Vintagebus
Subject: CE safaris and popouts are here

Well the nice man in the brown outfit brought me my box from across the
ocean today.  Primered safaris and satin finish popouts from Dave
Palmer's Creative Engineering.  I was a little worried because I did not
get popout to glass seals in my order, however I had ordered a complete
set from WW a while back and they work perfect.  I am installing the
popout frames as we speak,  (took a break for supper) three down and
three to go.  I was planning on painting them to match the upper color
(pearl white), however now that I see them in place I'm keeping them
like they are.  I just finished installing the plastic filler in my
deluxe trim last night (black) and it goes well with the aluminum
frames.  Now I just wish I would have ordered the polished finish on all
of it.  I am in such a rush I haven't taken photo's yet, but I will try
to snap some soon.  I am thinking of polishing the safari frames, anyone
know the best way to polish aluminum and remove primer at the same
time.  It feels so go to pull the weatherstripping off from around the
rusty popouts, it's like chemotherapy for my rust execpt that no one
loses any hair.  I only wish it wouldn't have taken two months for me to
get them, but when they run out of stock they run out of stock.  I
especially like how the popout latch screws onto the frame instead of
being spotwelded.  I did have to go and buy two large rubber-footed
clamps to squeeze the frame while I screw it in place.  I jokingly have
taken to calling the clamps "Joe" and "Johnson" after my father, because
he often gives me that extra set of hands when I have a project going
on.  Now I have my fathers hands without all the smart backtalk.  Anyway
I have to go, family duties call to me, they don't understand my need to
kill the rust, they just don't understand Clementine, they must stop
getting in the way, they must....... sorry becoming obsessed, I feel
like that kid in Stephen King's "Christine," except my ride never
straightened a dent out by herself.
   Tim Johnson
       and
   Clementine
