From: surlygirl(-at-)email.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 30 Apr 2003 12:51:33 +0800
Subject: Re: [VB] My buses are going up for sale

----- Original Message -----
From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>
Date: Sun, 27 Apr 2003 12:05:47 -0700

> Lets face it MOST SO's hate these things.
> 
> So, do you married people have a limit to owning busses, going to shows,
> swaps, et. al??  Be honest.  Eric and Barb and Philip and Kathryn are
> the exceptions that prove the rule.

having a partner who's supportive and involved is important.  i once went with a guy that called them all "bugs" - type 1s through type 4s.  he was insanely jealous, such that he was willing to "camp out" just to check up on me.  he never did go to a camp out and i'm sort of sorry about that because it would have been amusing to see.  he had well cared for hands, ironed his shirts and moussed his hair.  obviously it didn't last.  i always thought his jealously was misplaced: he really should have been jealous of me and my vws... ah, such intimate details we share with one another... bliss.

now i have all the support and involvement i could ever want with a new guy.  in fact i think some might say that we are actually bad for one another because he likes them too.  since getting together our group of vws has grown meteorically and is only slowing down due to a lack of space.  our small lot supports eight vws, a house and a garden.  our home is like some wacko compound filled with hedonist pleasure seekers....

i suppose that not only does our hobby require an understanding companion but maybe a passionate one too.  as our passions are aligned, my sweetie and i have 10 vws ranging in years from 1956 to 1967, including type 1s and type 2s and a horde of parts to support them.  if he wasn't as crazy about them as i am, i think there'd be more friction between us maybe.

cheers,
Rachel, Monterey CA			http://home.csumb.edu/~holl1802/pig.html
In a new car, you're just going somewhere;                                
in a Volkswagen you ARE somewhere. -Stormy Henderson's Dad
-- 
