From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 30 Apr 2003 20:56:29 -0400
Subject: re:rubber undercoat in door

This is what I did to my doors-now they go thump when closing....I took the
warped panels off. cleaned the inside of the door. then a litte wire brush
on the spts of rust inside the door, then I put the self-sticking sound
dampener from mcmaster-carr. the stuff comes in a big sheet, relatively easy
to cut with a utility knife. peel and stick in pieces to door. a piece about
10"x10" makes a huge difference. the more you add the better. then new
panels made of masonite, with some pastic bag taped to "door" side of the
panel. Pink/fiberglass insulation in the door is a bad idea, as water passes
through the door-this type of insulation would trap moisture-causingthe door
to rust awful fast.

I did put some bubble/silvery type insulation in the doors. not so much for
noise(As I didn'tn otice any improvement) but I thought it would help keep
the bus warmer/less drafty. not really sure if it made a difference. now
that the weather has warmed up, I am going to open the panels up again, and
see what the inside looks like.

as for hte engine compartment, I have put some of this self stick adhesive
stuff, inside the engine compartment, on the top. and inside the bus, on the
metal surrounding the engine. didn't notice much of a difference in sound.
This damping type insulation works well for vibrating metal type sounds(like
a door slamming) but not so well for just containing noise. For that you
need some type of foam stuff, therefore I purchased some self-adhering foam
insulation with a urethane coating(for easy cleanup) from mcmaster-carr
again. I need to paint some of the inside of the engine compartment before I
put this stuff on as there is some rust in there, and I don't want to trap
it under this foam stuff. again-hopefully during a warm-weather spell I will
pull the engine and do all this work(while installing the heater I purchased
on the samba).

I long for a quiet bus, I think noise is the number one reason for my
fatique when driving my bus on any trips longer then an hour or so.

I was conmtemplating replacing the headliner type panels in my bus(they are
wood, original to the ez-camper, but they are a bit worn. I have been
replacing different parts of my cabinets bit by bit. Anyway I was thinking
of drilling tiny holes in the panel, because these panels are basically big
sound reflectors, making the bus reflect sound all over. Acoustic panels
often have a lot of tiny holes to break the sound waves down. Usually a
headliner has these tiny holes too, right?

-kevin
