From: "Matthew Cuddy" <mattcuddy(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 09 Dec 2004 15:09:57 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] convert automatic to standard (longish)

>>>It's not very feasible, but there are some who have done it...

I'm one of them.  I converted my 79 Westy from an automatic to a standard 
roughly 6 years ago.

>>>>None of the linkages from the auto tranny are there, and neither are the 
>>>>holes they pass through or the mounting points they bolt to

Not entirely true, much of the stuff is already there (at least it was on my 
79!)  For example, the holes to bolt the clutch pedal/assembly to are 
already there; the mount for the front of the shift rod is there, it just 
needs to be bent into place; uses the same tube for teh shift linkage etc.

Ok, here goes:
Assuming you already have a standard donor bus, you'll have most everything 
you'll need. It is a time consuming project, getting everything just right.  
Most of the parts from the standard will just bolt in to the automatic bus, 
as it seems the automatics got most of the mounting holes etc. as the 
standard did. (my guess is it was probably easier for VW to just make all 
busses have all the mounts etc. rather than having seperate production lines 
for auto vs. manual busses; but who knows)

The biggest 'fabrication' issues would be the clutch cable tube. There will 
not be any on a factory auto bus.  I ended up using copper plumbing tube as 
I forgot to cut the one off my standard donor bus before I sent it to be 
scrapped :(

The other major issue was for the front shift rod mount. Its the front most 
guide for the shift rod, actually just in front of the shifter. A little 
plastic/rubber guide ( part F in this picture 
http://www.bus-boys.com/shifter79.html ) sits in the bracket. Now the 
bracket was actually included in both auto and standard busses. Its was cut 
out of the 'frame support rail' (or whatever it might be called)and bent out 
into place for the standards and not bent into place for the automatics (it 
would get in the way of the automatic gear selector) so you have to bend out 
that piece and tack weld it into place like the factory did.

The clutch pedal assemply bolts right in.  For the shifter, you will have to 
use a nut and a bolt. (from the factory, the manual busses have the bolt 
welded in, so you would just screw in the 2 bolts, autos didnt get the 
welded in bolts so use you own, weld them in if you like).  The accelerator 
pedal is different, but the manual will just swap into the place of the auto 
one.   And there is a little issue with the accelerator cable at the engine 
end, but I cant remember it off hand, I think you need to make a little 
guide, kind of like the bowden clutch cable tube on the trans; but I can't 
remember exactly right now.

I've been driving my bus without any problems (well none do to the 
conversion anyway) for about 6 years now. Though as a side note, in 
retrospect, I wish I'd just stuck with the automatic.  In fact, Ii have a 
pretty big oil leak (rear main seal) so I'll be dropping the engine soon.  
While its out I think I might switch back.
