Date: Thu, 09 Dec 2004 17:04:29 -0600
From: Alex Wisniewski <awisniewski(-at-)comcast.net>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: exhaust leak

Well i'm back again looking for some advice. Good news is that the
exhaust isn't coming inside the bus anymore. The trouble though is that
i've got an exhaust leak and can't seem to fix it.

Here is the progress over the last few months....
I ended up taking my bus to a VW shop a few months back. If you remember
back I was taping up the engine hatch and poptop. That seemed to suppress
the problem but it wasn't totally eliminated as i'd thought. At the VW
shop I had the mechanic look over the exhaust system for any leaks. After
some time of searching he assured me there were know leaks. So on a chance
i'd remembered someone using an exhaust gas testing equipment to located
a leak. So I asked the mechanic if he'd be willing to use the equipment
to look for a leak. He agreed to my surprise and he checked the exhaust
gasket area between the manifolds and cylinder heads, heat exchanger
heated air output, and then he checked the gaskets between the muffler
and heat exchangers. They were leaking, as the meter reading changed up.
Its leaking very little but enough to be dangerous i'm sure.

Let me refresh you with my exhaust system type. It is semi stock.
I've got '79 heat exchangers that connect directly up to a '72-'74 bus
muffler.

In the past i'd filed these exact flanges to eliminate any warping, but
after i found these gaskets weren't sealing i filed the flanges again.
I aslo found i could leave the heat exchangers installed and do a mock
fitting with the muffler, leaving the gaskets of.  With a drop light at
night I could see the high and low spots of the flanges, and i'd make a
mark and try to spot file the high spots.  I should mention how much fun
it is to file the muffler flanges... :)  These flanges has preinstalled
studs and you have to work around them with the file, while trying to
keep a flat surface.... I've tried removing the studs but it isn't going
to happen without me destroying the stud and the hole in the process.
Now I was able to make the flange surface match more closely between the
muffler and heat exchanger, but there are still are tiny leaks. There
seems to be leaks between the gasket itself, where the filler material
on the crushable gasket is located.

I've been trying all types of exhaust gaskets, lets see. Crushable metal
with a fiber center, perforated metal with fiber center, and layered
metal. The crushable seems to seal the best. I've tried exhaust paste
sealer on a few occasions and it seems to help the sealing of the
perforated gasket, as its not as pliable. The sealer holds for awhile,
and there are no leaks, then it blows out. No surprise to me. I was able
to reconnect my heat once, when the exhaust paste on the gasket was
holding and had fume free heat too!  But that didn't last very long as
the exhaust paste just erupted and leaked after a day or so. That wasn't
meant to be a permanent fix for me but at least I found out that was the
source of exhaust fumes.

Can I have some help with what I might try?


Alex W
1977 bus, '79 engine
