Date: Thu, 9 Dec 2004 16:23:45 -0700
From: Jack Hattaway <jack(-at-)law.utah.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: looking for a san diego based list member and automagic tranny

Some clarification is in order. :)

I presently own three bay rust buckets in Salt Lake City, Utah. All are
standard. My initial plan was to make two, one as a worker "rat" bay,
the other relatively nicely fixed and painted.

When I browsed over to thesamba.com for this morning's parts update, a
rather nice looking late bay with a blown motor was listed in San Diego
for $800. $800 is quite a bit less than what body work and paint will
potentially cost on the tenatively scheduled to be nice bus. 

Also, because I'm ten weeks into a three day valve job and trying to keep 
from going bananas, I pulled the gas tank on my 75 and observed at close 
range and in livid detail the rust on the belly of the bus. I had been 
running the mental list of what ought to be done before the motor goes 
back in when I ran across the above mentioned advert. A wave of euphoria, 
er, insanity overcame me and I began to calculate exactly what was 
involved with a 36 hour road trip to San Diego and back to maybe buy a 
fourth bus.

Ten years ago, before computers took over my life and livelihood, I
bought a ghia with an automagic stick shift. Sans internet, I muddled my
way through putting a "real" transmission and clutch in. As I have
standard transmissions is serviceable shape a plenty, I was mostly
curious if it would be as easy as that job turns out to be if you have a
good donor vehicle. 

It turns out from the much appreciated replies it is possible, but does
not sound as straight forward as I'd probably like. The insanity has
waned and the time I flew to Georgia to buy a Honda Prelude sight unseen
has percolated back from the depths of memory.

If a list member in the San Diego area is available for hire to evaluate
this bus, please let me know.

jack


-- 
one operating system to rule them and in the darkness bind them
