Date: Fri, 10 Dec 2004 02:32:13 -0800
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 34-PDSIT-2/3 rebuild

On Thu, 09 Dec 2004 13:46:00 -0800, Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com> wrote:
> The arm attaches to a rod which has three settings.

I have Bentley on CD ROM. My instruction page on this setting is the
4th supplement USA, printed 12/73. It has 3 different parameters to
adjust for pump volume. Does your Bentley have this same procedure? I
could email you the extracted PDF file, but it is nearly 2MB as it
extracts the entire chapter. Or if you are interested, I could type
out the procedure from this page.

> The tab is almost flat with no bend at all. I bend the tab and only got the level "up" to 16mm. The float is the stock 7g unit (confirmed on a scale) and for the fluid level to come up another 3mm the float would hit the top of the float chamber.

My edition of Bentley gives no permission to bend the tab actually,
differing from many other carb designs. Chilton actually says you
jepordize proper needle seating if you bend the tab. Per other posts,
the only legal method of adjusting float is the washers, but you said
you already have the smallest one available (0.5mm) and you leak
without it.

You have a suggestion to check gasket interference to report back on,
so I will await those results. There is some confusion on this post:

> I tried to adjust the float some more but it keeps hitting the bowl letting
the bowl overflow. 

My original impression was that you were getting fuel level too low
because float was closing needle valve prematurely. But this paragraph
suggests your float is hanging up and not rising to shut off needle
valve. But if that were the case, your bowl would overflow rather than
be too low. I must be missing something different you tried here. I
can't see any other reasons why your float would refuse to rise unless
you are using a replacement float and it is geometrically different
from the original float.

If it is not the case that your float is hanging up, but is rather
shutting the needle valve prematurely, the only other way to let the
float rise higher is to shorten the needle so it closes later, unless
as you suggest, you wish to increase float weight.

> I wish I had an 8.5g float to experiment with but I understand the PICT floats are rectangular. The other option is the weigh down the float some more. Any idea how much more weight and what to tie to the float (it's plastic)?

It would be equal to the weight of the additional fuel you wish to
displace (the amount of fuel it takes to bring your bowl level within
spec).

> The other 68-71 carbs have a much lower float level. Of course they are totally different but as long as the main jet at the bottom is covered as well as the pickup for the accelerator pump what does it matter what the exact level is?

This is the amount of fuel the engineers felt was necessary for the
engine's fuel needs to be met under peak demand. Race cars with under
capacity carb systems experience emptying out of the fuel bowl causing
momentary lean conditions. You may be close enough to spec to be
within VW's over-engineering safety margins, but you wouldn't want to
chance it where the engine's life is concerned. Chilton is quite
adament that the exact fuel level be achieved.

> Does anyone know of a fuel proof glue that can be used to secure the float to it's metal tab? This one is loose compunding problems further.

Well, I was visiting a local VW guru, and he had acquired a weber
setup for his oval project very cheap or free because of broken pot
metal on the top section. He repaired it with JB Weld. I couldn't
believe it and told him I didn't know JB weld was fuel resistant. He
said he has been using it for years in that application. If you don't
feel comfortable with it, FLAPS and even Wal-mart sell other epoxies
that are certified for radiator and gas tank repair.

John
