Date: Mon, 6 Jan 2003 19:16:52 -0800 (PST)
From: "Nemo, Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: alshouse(-at-)speakeasy.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Insurance Question 

>I need to change companies to get an assigned
value policy. 

You sure as hell do not.  This is exceedingly
poor advice unless you have a show car or vehicle
that is heavily modified and worth more than the
average bus.  Most of us do not.  Don't waste
your money.  

I think I've been through this before, but let me
do it again.  I have professional training and
experience in these issues.  I don't care what
kind of policy you buy, you will end up proving
to the insurance company the value of the
vehicle.  Why?  Because even with an assigned
value policy, the insurance company will not pay
you a penny more than your van is worth. 
Otherwise, people would put a $10,000 tag on a
junk bus and let it burn-- oops must have been
bad fuel line-- to collect the money.  

This is called having an "insurable interest" and
even with an assigned value policy, you won't
cash in more than your insurable interest.  Look
it up in any basic text on insurance law.  The
same agent that told you list folks to buy this
probably tried to sell you whole life insurance. 


I wouldn't pay more for assigned value insurance
and neither should most of you.  Buy regular
insurance and keep receipts for your bus.  (But
note that the value of the bus IS NOT what you
paid for it plus what you paid in parts. 
However, lots of maintenance may show the vehicle
was in tip top shape and worth more than
average.)  In the event your bus is totalled, you
will have to use NADA and ads to prove the value
of your bus.  It is a fact like anything else.  A
professional appraisal prior to the wreck might
be good advice if your bus is especially
prisitne.  

The insurance company will not offer you what you
want the first time, assigned value or not,
especially if you use the el cheapo companies. 
They are in business to make money and a experts
at settling a claim for the least amount
possible.  That is there job and they are very
good at it.  (The bad ones get fired.)  You just
have to hang in there, and threaten to get an
attorney.  Insurance adjusters don't like open
cases, particularly in states with strong bad
faith law.  Whether the insurance company gives
you a good settlement offer or not depends more
on the policies of the company and the mood of
the adjuster (reserves quotas etc.) than whether
or not the policy is "assigned value" or not.  

I'm not getting into naming who is good and who
is bad as far as claims service, as it probably
varies from state to state due to different
management and different state laws and regs.  In
general, the el cheapo 1-800 companies are the
worst.  

YMWV.  Not intended to be legal advice.  Consult
an attorney in your state.  Etc. etc.  

Good luck,
Ray
