From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'Dean.Landi(-at-)noaa.gov'" <Dean.Landi(-at-)noaa.gov>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Jan 2003 15:58:25 -0600 
Subject: RE: Porsche Mags

	Dean, and the List, et al

	Amen to what Mike G. said WRT using the adaptors for Porsche alloys
on the 5 x 112 bolt pattern as used on the '71 & up Bays with discs in front
and the composite drums on the back.  If it's a trailer queen, be our guest,
but well made adaptors are going to be very few and far between.  I was
recently questioned by a gentleman wearing an FAT shop shirt (name patch of
"Mark") while dropping off or picking up my 2260 motor bits at Rimco.  He
was admiring the 6 and 6.5 inch MBZ alloys on my bus, and wanted to know how
much work it was to get them on the '72.  During the course of our
conversation he mentioned that the only person he was aware of that made the
5 x 130 Porsche/5 x 112 Bus pattern adaptors had recently passed on, and
that was pretty much all she wrote...  I think "Mark" said that it was
"Wheel-A-Dapt" that was responsible for the quality units, and that they
were the only ones he would EVER consider using...  Fellow STB
co-conspirator Mike Visket and I ran into a gentleman at the yards who had
made his own Porsche adaptors - he said it was a ROYAL PITA, and while the
rims sure looked good on the bus, they did rub on the back.  

	That being said, I find the OE 14" MBZ alloys at the 'yards with
disgusting regularity out here in SoCal - $17 a pop + a $5 core charge, so a
light, strong and pretty good looking rim sets me back $22 a copy.  You know
that it's been made for a big, heavy car - makes for Happy Bus Points(tm)
there.  Play your cards right and you can even get the MBZ rim ET to within
about 2mm of the stock bus rim ET - take your tape measure and hunt for the
rims with a 5" backspace.  Play them wrong and you will get an ET 30 rim -
4.75" backspace (MHE regarding the ET/backspace conundrum - YMMV).  You will
have to figure out how to make the steel sleeve of the MBZ alloy (sized for
the 12mm bolt) fit over the 14mm VW stud, but it's nothing a drill press and
a 5/8" drill bit can't cure.  And of course, there is a veritable
cornucopia, a plethora or two, and maybe even a surfeit of other rims
manufactured to fit the MBZ (and by extension VW) pattern - I have even
stumbled across OE 15" and 16" MBZ alloys in the yards recently.

	Score of the New Year has been a set of 4 Vanagon alloys off an '87
down in Imperial, CA last week - $15 each + a $3 tire de-shucking fee...
They should be gracing a shiny orange '75 ASI camper by this week's end.

	List morale has been pretty good lately, so there will be no
beatings today :-)

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org  
