From: "Dakhlia, Sami" <sdakhlia(-at-)cba.ua.edu>
To: "'Dean.Landi(-at-)noaa.gov'" <Dean.Landi(-at-)noaa.gov>, "'type2(-at-)type2.com'"
Date: Wed, 8 Jan 2003 16:49:50 -0600 
Subject: RE: Porsche Mags

I'm not crazy enough to tell anyone that wheel adapters are perfectly safe,
but I will say that some are better than others. For the Porsche Fuchs to
bus application, I'm happy so far with the steel adapters from Wolfgang
International. I was NOT happy at all with the aluminum adapters from "Fred"
at "wheeladapter.com", which I am now using as paper weights. (I do not know
if this is the same outfit as "Wheel-A-Dapt" that "Mark" from FAT
recommended.) First the studs were standard, not metric, a dangerous
almost-fit: at 80 ft-lbs of torque, the soft aluminum Porsche lugs "slipped"
over the threads. I had to send them back to get the right studs. Then the
"bed" for the semi-spherical bus lug nuts were not machined to match, so the
bus lugs always came loose. Third, the aluminum adapters had to be an inch
thick to be sturdy enough, but that got the rear tires within an 1/8th of an
inch from the fenders. (I have original 6x15 Fuchs with 205/65TR-15
Continental Contact CT22 tires).

The steel adapters from Wolfgangint.com are better. I had an issue with two
of them, the studs not sticking out straight, but got better-fitting
replacements. These adapters are about 1/2 inch thick, so when bolted on,
the bus lugnuts stick out a bit. This is fine, though, since they nest into
the hollow part of the Fuchs alloys. (not sure if my description makes
sense...). 

To add to Mike G.'s comments, I will agree that I would not trust slip-on
spacers since they require longer studs. But I don't see how adapters could
cause grief IF they are properly secured. (Note that in order to properly
torque the adapters, a good trick to have helper sit in the bus and step on
the brakes.)

Finally, I'd like to point out that bus front rotors are too small to be
drilled and tapped to match the 5x130 Porsche pattern. (An alternative, I am
told, would be to use Porsche 924 Turbo or 944 wheels hubs (and brakes!),
but they require a specially machined "sleeve" to fit the bus spindle.)

Sami 
http://type2.com/dakhlia/
