Date: Wed, 08 Jan 2003 17:49:14 -0800
From: High-Tech Red Neck <hitkrdnk(-at-)gte.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] oil sheen

You may be getting blow-by which is causing oil vapor to coat your
engine compartment.   I'm experiencing this right now on the 1500 that a
EPO installed in my '73 panel.  It's another one of the disasters that I
knew I would have to deal with.  But this last week it's got real bad. 
I figure the engine is ready to detonate at any time. 8^0

I opened the engine compartment yesterday while the engine was running
and I could see the oil steam coming out of the breather.  I pulled off
the Oil fill cap and it was really blowing out.  I knew that oil was
coming out the breather as it had been filling the bottom of the air
cleaner.  I had figured that it was because the turkey had put the oil
baffle at the bottom of the alternator stand in backwards.  The amount
of blow I found yesterday was a big surprise.  Sunday the engine started
making a noise that if thought was valves on acceleration.  I checked
valves and they were right where they should be.  Oil was dirtier than
it should be for 100 miles short of my regular 3k miles change so I
changed it.  Found several flecks of bearing material in the strainer. 
Then it became obvious that the engine didn't have very long to live. 
It actually has lasted longer than I expected considering the other
things I've found on the bus.  There's several loooong stories there.

I'm scrambling to prep a 1600 DP long block from my son's Super Beetle
that got stomped by a Suburban.  If I'm quick, maybe I'll get it in and
be able to go to BBB.  I'm not holding my breath.  I've got a lot of
other things going.

Anyway, pull your oil breather off the air filter (if you have a stock
air filter) and see if you are getting steam.  Remove the filler cap and
check there.  All this is while the engine is running.

A leak down test will tell you about it too.  (I'm going to do one for
the "fun of it" after I pull the 1500 out.  Pretty sure I know what I'll
find.

Bob Bueling
Port Hueneme, CA


David Kelly wrote:
> 
> Hello,
> 
> Is your dip stick pushed all the way in?, Is your oil
> cap screwed on tight? You may have a leak around the
> main engine seal behind the cooling fan. That would be
> my guess. As it leaks, the fan sprays it all over your
> engine compartment. You may be able to replace the
> --- Gunnys(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> > I just recently did a top end rebuild on my 71
> > westy.. now when ever i run
> > the bus i get a light spray of oil inside the engine
> > compartment, so
