From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2002 20:58:19 EST
To: gezuvor(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Rear main seal replacement??

 engine oil leaks coming from between the engine and tranny area usually the 
main seal.  it can possibly be a cracked case, but that generally only 
happens with a bored out case.  you probably are looking at a bad main seal.

very unlikely that the body shop did anything if they just pulled and 
replaced the motor to paint the engine compartement. 

yes, old main seals can go bad and just start leaking from being old.

to replace it, you have to pull the motor, and remove the FW, then change the 
seal- procedure in your bentley or muir idiot book.   afternoon if you have 
not done it before.   change main seal and if you have one (probably) the O 
ring as well.  heck put in new fuel line to keep your shiny bus pretty and 
not burnt while you are at it.

hm- reading your desciption again, when I have a main seal leak it drips 
right out of the bottom of the engine tranny seam.    You may have an oil 
cooler leak instead.  ALways replace oil cooler seals when you do main seals 
and vice versa.  go together like bread and butter.   Plus they are cheap.  
Yes,  you gotta pull the motor to change the oil cooler seals..

In a message dated 1/24/02 10:18:08 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
gezuvor(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< Greetings listees,
  
 I have several questions, but will start with some background info. I
 recently got my bus back from the body shop (4 month visit) and am
 having some severe oil leakage issues. Before I turned the bus over, it
 was not leaking more than a few drops a day. On the contrary, it was
 burning quite a bit, but that's not relevant to this situation and was
 (supposedly) fixed while the motor was out. Anyway...
  
 As of this evening, it was leaking from the valve cover on one side and
 what appeared to be "all over the bottom". Further research revealed
 that one of the valve cover bales was a little weak. I bent it around a
 bit and cured that problem. After wiping down the motor with a rag and
 changing what was left of the oil, I fired it up and sat back to watch.
 Not much activity until the motor warmed up a bit. At that point, it
 started to leak aggressively on the drivers side of the case where the
 trans connects to it. The oil was leaking from up high (out of sight
 while lying on the floor) and running down on that side.
  
 To the questions:
 1) Is this indicative of a rear main seal failure?
 2) Is this something that could have been damaged/dislodged during
 removal or reinstall of the motor?
 3) Is this (the seal) something that can develop a leak when unused for
 a period of time?
 4) If I need to replace this thing, is it a big deal?
   >>
