From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 27 Jan 2002 22:13:25 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 65 generator fixed- but mass oil problem


the 65 westy has this mystery motor that I got and drove around on for about 
40 miles in the spring in the 61, but then I did the engine swap and put the 
known good engine in the 61 to drive to KP.  Which turns out to have been a 
good call, as  soon after in the summer the generator went bad in the mystery 
motor, it was having really strange charging issues.  So I stopped 
procrastinating, and got a brand spanking new Bosch generator and brand 
spanking new Bosch funky new style regulator. VWFLAPS guy said the new style 
regs put out more amps than the old style, that has to be good, right? you 
now get about 50 amps.

So Sat it's snowing, a perfect day to work on the bus :).  I have the 
portable propane heater on in the garage, and actually manage to remove the 
old generator from the bus using the undo the big nut remove the carb method, 
without messing with the fan housing nor dropping the motor.  Then I have to 
fight the pulley and the hub off the old generator. (torch helped).  filed 
them just a tad so the key slipped through the keyway w/o binding, than 
installed them, swapped the tin by the fan housing, and put the shims between 
the gen and fan on with some grease as glue so they don't drop off.   The new 
generator actually went easily back into place.  stuck carb etc back on.  I 
undid the bat ground strap, removed the old regulator,  found another wiring 
piece gen to reg as the new gen had screw on connectors, the old one the push 
on connectors. polarised the generator (spin!) and did up the fan belt.  
Connected the wires, installled regulator, replaced ground strap. everything 
went together fairly easily and straightforwardly.  Wow. That wasn't so hard, 
why didn't I do this ages ago?

okay, put the charger on the bus, and it started up.   Funny gen noise gone, 
idiot light off.  Volt/ohmmeter says it puts out 14V  great!  

Hm - the garage is filling up with exhaust as the bus is backed in.  so I 
open the garage door, and pull the bus out. 

 I'm in the drive way and the bus sputters a little (its cold, has not been 
drivien much at all since end of March) and I give it a little gas to keep it 
going.   I hear this noise I never have heard before.  a gurgling noise.  
what the hell gurgles on a bus?   I look out the side view mirror and see 
smoke.  I get out and look at the engine, which is pouring out oil.   OH 
SH&T!!!!!!

Turn bus off, grab oil drain bucket, rags clean it up.   Tighten oil filter 
on filter pump.  wierd- it was loose.,   It never did this before.  top up oil

start bus again (it starts right up w/o needing a charge!!!!)  get out, see 
strong stream of oil spurting out the passenger side from the engine from the 
area of the oil pump.  Range- probably 5 ft.- hand in stream flet good 
pressure, guess the pump works.    Jeez.  turn off bus, clean up oil.   Look 
at filter some more.  think the seal got pushed out the side.  So I blew the 
oil filter cause the pressure was real high with the oil that was probably 
not much more than 30*  F (30 wt). It had a oil filter without the relief 
spring.  I didn't even give it full gas, just tapped the pedal!  And I 
thought Eric (VeeWee111) was just being paranoid about oil filters.   :)  

So I went to the FLAPS (in the other VW) and got a filter WITH a relief 
spring, swapped it out, topped up the oil, and started it up.   no problem.   
And it sure warms up alot better that the 61.  
Ya, it has an oil pressure guage, but I have to admit I did not look at the 
guage when it blew, but after I swapped the filter it idled just under 70psi 
at start up.  
