From: "rich barker" <gezuvor(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <Claralw(-at-)aol.com>,
Date: Mon, 28 Jan 2002 08:27:16 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Rear main seal replacement??

Well,

First of all, thanks to everyone that provided both public and private
advice on this matter.

Matt & I pulled the motor today and replaced the 4 oil cooler seals. The
cooler -> mount seals had what looked like paint on them and there was a
significant amount of oil in/around the area, so I figured that was it.
We took about 3 hours total and wasn't too difficult, even for me being
a first-timer! Unfortunately, I am reading this recommendation (replace
rear main too) a little late.

We got it buttoned back up and the leak was still there. Aargh!! It is
still leaking out of the drivers side, although not as bad as before. I
drove it around for a while this afternoon & evening w/o significant
loss of oil. I was not able to check it for drippage, since it was
raining, but have put it away again and will check for leakage in the
morning.

The area around the main seal seemed very clean, so I'm not sure what
the story is with it. The oil cooler looked to be in good condition, but
perhaps it could be cracked (?) or damaged somehow.

Still looking for solutions,

~Rich

-----Original Message-----
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Claralw(-at-)aol.com] 
Sent: Sunday, January 27, 2002 5:58 PM
To: gezuvor(-at-)hotmail.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Rear main seal replacement??


 engine oil leaks coming from between the engine and tranny area usually
the
main seal.  it can possibly be a cracked case, but that generally only
happens with a bored out case.  you probably are looking at a bad main
seal.

very unlikely that the body shop did anything if they just pulled and
replaced the motor to paint the engine compartement.

yes, old main seals can go bad and just start leaking from being old.

to replace it, you have to pull the motor, and remove the FW, then
change the
seal- procedure in your bentley or muir idiot book.   afternoon if you
have
not done it before.   change main seal and if you have one (probably)
the O
ring as well.  heck put in new fuel line to keep your shiny bus pretty
and
not burnt while you are at it.

hm- reading your desciption again, when I have a main seal leak it drips
right out of the bottom of the engine tranny seam.    You may have an
oil
cooler leak instead.  ALways replace oil cooler seals when you do main
seals
and vice versa.  go together like bread and butter.   Plus they are
cheap.
Yes,  you gotta pull the motor to change the oil cooler seals..

In a message dated 1/24/02 10:18:08 PM Pacific Standard Time,
gezuvor(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< Greetings listees,

 I have several questions, but will start with some background info. I
 recently got my bus back from the body shop (4 month visit) and am
 having some severe oil leakage issues. Before I turned the bus over, it
 was not leaking more than a few drops a day. On the contrary, it was
 burning quite a bit, but that's not relevant to this situation and was
 (supposedly) fixed while the motor was out. Anyway...

 As of this evening, it was leaking from the valve cover on one side and
 what appeared to be "all over the bottom". Further research revealed
 that one of the valve cover bales was a little weak. I bent it around a
 bit and cured that problem. After wiping down the motor with a rag and
 changing what was left of the oil, I fired it up and sat back to watch.
 Not much activity until the motor warmed up a bit. At that point, it
 started to leak aggressively on the drivers side of the case where the
 trans connects to it. The oil was leaking from up high (out of sight
 while lying on the floor) and running down on that side.

 To the questions:
 1) Is this indicative of a rear main seal failure?
 2) Is this something that could have been damaged/dislodged during
 removal or reinstall of the motor?
 3) Is this (the seal) something that can develop a leak when unused for
 a period of time?
 4) If I need to replace this thing, is it a big deal?
   >>
