Date: Fri, 19 Jul 2002 10:01:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: Mike Charnoky <noky(-at-)nextbus.com>
To: type2 VW mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: engine rebuild lessons

Well, I'm in the final stages of getting my engine running again after my
first rebuild.  Ostensibly, the rebuild was done to replace the heads in
my '79 Westy, but I ended up doing a clutch job and a few other little
things along the way.  Once it was all torn down, cleaned up, and the new
parts were ordered, my father-in-law and I had a great time working
to get everything back (nothing like old cars to bring family together, eh?)

All in all, the job hasn't been too hard (time consuming, yes), but there
have been a few gotchas.  Thought I'd share these tips to help others
avoid the same mistakes (NOTE: This applies to the pancake engine with
hydraulic lifters):

1) This was the most annoying one: MAKE SURE TO PUT THE ENGINE CROSSMEMBER
SUPPORT BAR ON THE RIGHT WAY!  Once I got the engine mounted with the
tranny, I tried to attach the support bar to the frame only to find... it
was on backwards!  Last night, I had to remove the fan shroud, a bunch of
exhaust and dismantle the crossmember pieces just to get the darn thing
off.  Talk about your tightly packed puzzles...

2) Reassembling the exhaust system.  For the longest time, my
father-in-law and I tried to reassemble this as one big unit.  This was
just completely wrong.  You have to dismantle the components and attach
the heat exchangers first.  Be careful!  There are some bolts in the
crossover pipe that will probably be really rusty - you don't want those
to bust off because they are a part of the whole unit.  I used anti-seize
to help prevent trouble with those bolts in the future.

3) Bleeding the lifters.  This can take a long time until you figure it
out...  Tom Wilson's method (submerging the lifter in oil and pressing
down hard several times) simply did not work.  I had to dismantle the
things and finally figured out how: use a pair of needle nose pliers IN
REVERSE (ie: don't use them to grip but to push out from the inside) to
pull out the inner workings of the lifter once the clip is off.  Fill them
with oil and use a big C-clamp to compress it (slowly) in order to get the
clip back on.

Whew!  Those were my big time sinks.  Hopefully I'll be back up and
running tomorrow.  I think it has been three weeks since I first started
the project (no, I haven't been working all that time!)


noky
'79 Westy


