From: "Gary G. Martin" <gmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 29 Jul 2003 21:17:26 -0500
Subject: weird distributor advance

>From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
>Subject: re new Mexican Bosch Vacuum Distributor
>Message-ID: <000a01c35633$57c895b0$f5c66618(-at-)drc71wr17nafq5>
>
>I bought a brand new Mexican made Bosch distributor
>snip
>The only strange thing is, if I disconnect the vacuum hose, and advance it
>with centrifugal only, it is exactly the same- it reaches 30 the same, and
>every setting is the same whether the hose is on or off. It behaves much
like
>an 009, to tell you the truth. The vacuum advance hose fits tight and
doesn't
>appear to leak.
ggm replies
somebody told me that 28 degrees advance is all your want for a bus so with
30 advance listen for those engine destroying pings and retard the advance
as necessary.

that is a very interesting distributor. Why does it have a vacuum diaphragm
for advance??If you have a vacuum pump, why don't you plug the engine
vacuum line going to the distributor, put your vacuum pump on the
distributor, then test for advance every way you can think of to find out
what this distributor really does. it doesn't hurt to run the same test
using the engine vacuum vs the hand held pump vacuum, repeating a test is a
good thing to do too, at least it tells you if the part is behaving
consistently or not.

super slow idle to inhibit centrifugal advance, then apply vacuum pump
vacuum at idle, watch timing while revving engine to mid-range. then cut
vacuum, watch timing, etc. it would be nice if you also hooked up a
tachometer to get the engine speeds

just perform every permutation you can think of, you are trying to figure
out exactly what the distributor does and if it does it consistently, with
the hand held vacuum pump vs the engine vacuum. while you are at it, hook
the vacuum gauge to the engine vacuum line going to the distributor and
check that reading over various engine speeds.  I know that there are only
three variables: engine speed, engine vacuum vs hand vacuum, timing, but
sometimes it helps to make a little table to set up your test procedure and
your results. looking at a table can really be an epiphany sometimes .with
the engine off and the key in your pocket, stick your finger in the
distributor and move the points plate back and forth and check the
movement. if you take the distributor out, shake it to make sure the
centrifugal weight springs are all connected. twist the rotor back and
forth and see if it snaps back the same as a known working distributor,
check for no up and down movement.  bye ggm
