To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 30 Jul 2003 11:50:49 -0400
From: Dan Geer <geer(-at-)world.std.com>
Subject: After 58 Years, the Beetle Gets to the End of the Road

http://nytimes.com/2003/07/27/automobiles/27vdub.html
The New York Times

July 27, 2003 

After 58 Years, the Beetle Gets to the End of the Road 
By PHIL PATTON 


ON  Wednesday the last Volkswagen Beetle will roll off the assembly
line at the VW plant in Puebla, Mexico. It will be the first time in 58
years that the Beetle has not been in production somewhere in the
world.

That final Beetle brings production to 21,529,464, by the company's
calculations, a total that far outstrips any other model.

The Bug passed the Model T at 16.5 million in 1973 and while both
Volkswagen and Toyota claim higher totals for the Golf and Corolla
respectively, those cars underwent generational changes while the
Beetle's evolution occurred within a single basic body.

VW began producing the Beetle outside of Germany in the 1950s. The
Puebla factory opened in 1964 and has long been an object of national
pride. People never forget their first cars; neither do countries, and
for Mexico  the Beetle was the nation's first car.

In Mexico City,  it became familiar as the most common taxi, decked out
in an instantly recognizable green-and-white paint job. In Puebla, not
only the taxis but also the police cars are Beetles. The immediate
cause of the Beetle's demise was the new requirement that Mexico City
taxis have four doors - offering easier escape for tourists, who have
sometimes found themselves trapped in the rear seat as they were
victimized by bandits.

The Puebla plant will continue to build the more streamlined New
Beetles, as well as Golfs and Jettas. The last of the old-style Bugs
will be  a run of 3,000 called the Ultima Edicion, Spanish for "last
edition."

The design was commissioned by Hitler, who instructed his engineer,
Ferdinand Porsche, that the car "should look like a beetle." About 600
were produced before 1945; most of these went to Nazi officials.

After World War II, the occupying British revived the factory in what
became Wolfsburg, and in 1949, Volkswagen accounted for 45 percent of
West Germany's industrial production.

In the United States, the Beetle has long since passed into legend.
Some bits of Beetle lore, to tickle the nostalgia bone in those old
enough to remember and tell the young of the Beetle's iconic status:

The Beetle gave rise to the popular children's road travel game known
as  "Punch Buggy" or "Slug Bug," where the first to see a Beetle coming
in the opposite direction would holler "slug bug!" and give another
passenger a punch in the arm.

Beetles have been constructed of unusual materials. About 20 of them
were built of delicate wrought iron tracery by unknown artisans for
Mexican VW dealers. A basket body Beetle took 600 hours to weave.
Sculptor Livio de Marchi carved an all-wooden Beetle. A Beetle with a
propeller once crossed the Straits of Messina from southern Italy to
Sicily.

Art Bugs: Andy Warhol painted Beetle ads in the same style that  he
rendered Marilyn Monroe and Jackie Onassis. Tom Wesselmann, another pop
artist, and Don Eddy, a photorealist painter, also put Beetles into
their art.

Literary Bugs: John Updike described the Brazilian Beetle factory in
his novel "Brazil," and Geoff Nicholson, the British novelist,  wrote a
whole book about Beetle fans, "Still Life With Volkswagens."

Music Bugs: John Lennon, the Beatle, owned a Beetle. His white Bug
appeared on the cover of the Beatles' "Abbey Road" album.

Film Bugs: The Beetle had its own Hollywood star car. Walt Disney
followed "The Love Bug" of 1969 with three "Herbie" sequels. The Beetle
starred in two Woody Allen movies, "Annie Hall" and "Sleeper." James
Bond briefly drove a Beetle in the 1983 film "Octopussy."
