Date: Fri, 24 Feb 2006 11:10:52 -0500
From: claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: jon(-at-)kenneke.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] "Trip" report: journey in a cruddy '65    

 Congrats on the new bus, and the exciting ride!.
 
Thanks for the trip report.  :)
 
Might adjust, flush and the bleed the brakes.  
40hps are sweet, and I've gotten 28mpg with one.  and og 40hp exhausts are about $20  :)   
I should put another 40hp together.  hm...
 
the carb icing makes sense.   I can hear when my carb de-ices.  You are in Oregon, right?  Might find a 40hp aircleaner with the pre-heat flap  (if you don't have one) and hook the tube up.
 
Check the shift linkage?
 
I recently developed some shifting issues in my 61. I think it's a bad front trans mount.   It seems like the gears 'move' around a bit, and this can make it hard to find a gear.   Mayeb yours is bad, or he shift coupler?
 
 .....................................
Since several folks asked, I'll share my adventure that I had yesterday,
with our "new" split window (Splittie) panel.

Last weekend, we went up to a place outside of Estacada (it actually has a
Boring address (the place, not the state of mind)). We looked at a '65
Panel van with all sorts of rocker and dog leg rust. Rust bucket was the
first thing to come to mind.

We left, came home, did some research, and found out it was a good deal.
This rust bucket had a running motor, is 98 percent complete, and is
driveable.

Keep in mind, we live in Albany, so this location of the spilttie was
about 85 miles from home. I decided to drive it home. The seller, a former
mechanic, and current VW restoration dude concurred. (Warning, not all
sellers are as honest)

So, it happens my folks were headed up that way on Wednesday (yesterday),
so I hitched a ride with them. I brought along warm clothes, tools, a
battery, jumper cables, and a jerry can of gas. Oh yeah, I always bring a
fire extinguisher as well.

Showed up a 2PM, and the seller gave us a tour of his other VWs...some
cool stuff (DOKAs, SOKAs, deluxe, etc). He also warned me the heat riser
was not working, so the carb was icing up, until the whole engine
compartment was warm. The required gunning the engine, and slipping the
clutch when starting in 1st gear.

So, I practiced driving it in this state around his place, and was happy.

See, the thing was a 6 volt battery would not start the van. Even though
it has a 6 Volt system, it would not start with even the fully charged
monster 6 volt battery I brought. So, if I stalled it on the road, I would
have to use a seller supplied 12 volt to jump start it. A huge PITA.

So, off I went at around 3PM. For the first 8 or so miles, I had to rev
it, and then slip the clutch to keep it from stalling when starting off
from a stop. After that, the engine compartment warmed up enough, so
icing was not an issue.

I hadn't thought about carb. icing since I got my student pilot's rating
(now expired).

The brakes (hydraulic) pulled to the side at first, but for some reason,
started working fine after 10 or 15 miles. I suppose this thing hadn't
been driven any distance for awhile.

All was well back to Albany...I went through Colton, Molalla, Woodburn (a
cruddy little town, with annoying traffic...apologies in advance if you
live there). Then, I hit the freeway.

It's amazing how much power there really is with a 2200 Lb. bus and a 40HP
motor. This bus is bone stock, with the original reduction gears (not
IRS). 60 was not a problem....unless I was being passed by a semi.
Wow...makes Vanagon's (and Bays) feel stable.

I pulled into home around 5PM. As I pulled into the driveway, and was
reversing to park the van, I couldn't find any gears. I used a little
clutch action to get it into 1st, and then all gears came back. Strange.

So, a successful trip in a somewhat scary 41 year-old vehicle.

Now, the restoration begins on a very "hippie-ized" van. The rear wheel
flares were cut out, as well as the "wall" behind the seats (to make it a
"pass through"). I have replacement panels, so these will be welded in. A
PO also installed a home-made crude camping setup inside, which is coming
out. They also drilled innumerable holes in the body for silly things.

And, of course, it needs paint. It will be returned to bone-stock state.
And, then, I will be afraid to drive it. ;-)   NOT!!!

J
