Date: Sat, 25 Feb 2006 23:18:36 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: "Trip" report: journey in a cruddy '65

> From: jon <jon(-at-)kenneke.com>
> Date: Thu, 23 Feb 2006 21:43:29 -0800 (PST)
>
> Showed up a 2PM, and the seller gave us a tour of his other VWs...some
> cool stuff (DOKAs, SOKAs, deluxe, etc).

DOppelKAbine?  Or something else?  (Haven't seen those acronyms before.)

> He also warned me the heat riser was not working, so the carb was icing
> up, until the whole engine compartment was warm.

Warning: I haven't ever tried this - just thinking out loud.

I have seen an ad in a British VW mag for a small heating blanket that
goes around the vertical section of the intake manifold, just below the
carb, to help prevent carb icing.  I *think* it was called the "Snug
Bug" or similar, but I'm not sure.

I wonder if it would be possible to implement the same thing on a
temporary basis, using something like a power resistor attached to the
rear side of the carb, or to the inlet manifold below the carb.  Rat
Shock sells 10 W power resistors in 10 and 50 ohms, and a 20 W power
resistor in 8 ohms.  On a 6 V Bus, that'd give you 3.6 W, 0.72 W, or
4.5 W of heat respectively; on a 12 V, you couldn't use the 10 ohm, but
you could get 2.88 W out of the 50 ohm or 18 W out of the 8 ohm.
Depending on how much room you have, you might be able to use two
resistors to get more heating.  If you're not limited to Rat Shock's
selection, the possibilities are larger.

I envision attaching the resistors with baling wire or maybe a big hose
clamp around the carb/manifold and the resistors.  The resistor leads
would have tape or heat-shrink right up to the body of the resistor, to
stop it shorting out on the carb.  A light bulb would be cheaper yet and
even more available, but more difficult to attach firmly without breaking.

One end of the resistor would go to ground, but preferably not on the
carb or intake.  The other end would go, through a fuse, to the battery
positive terminal.  As long as you used some reasonable gauge of wire,
like 18 or better, a VW-style 8 A fuse would be plenty.  A glass 2 A
fuse, or a plastic 3 A, 4 A, or 5 A fuse, would be even better.  The
fuse is *NOT* optional.  You _could_ wire the resistor to the hot wire
at the coil, but this increases the draw through the ignition switch
and might reduce the voltage to the ignition coil and choke heater.  It
also doesn't provide any fuse protection.  Alternatively, you could
wire it to one of the tail light (not brake light) wires, and run with
the lights on - the light switch might cope better than the ignition
switch with the increased current draw, and the tail light circuit is
fused.

If it was connected to the battery, you might want to stop and unplug
it when the engine got up to temperature, and for sure when you stop and
shut the engine down.  If you connected it to the lights, and it's the
daytime, you could turn the carb heat off and on with the light switch.

Of course, the Right Thing (tm) is to fix the heat riser or whatever's
causing the carb icing problem in the first place.  This is more of an
on-the-road or get-a-new-Bus-home solution.

> I hadn't thought about carb. icing since I got my student pilot's rating
> (now expired).

Most people I know just wear a neck warmer if they think they're going
to have trouble with icing.  At a rate of descent of 12,000 ft/min (at
least down to 3000 to 4500 ft AGL), you're usually not in icing conditions
for very long, anyway.

> This bus is bone stock, with the original reduction gears (not IRS).

Nit: All air-cooled Volkswagens have independent rear suspension, although
some do have a sway bar on the rear that makes them not completely
independent.  Early ones have swing axles; later ones have CV-joint axles.

> So, a successful trip in a somewhat scary 41 year-old vehicle.

Slightly more scary: at this point, the chances are about even that it's
really 42 years old...

Matt Roberds
