Date: Fri, 28 Jan 2005 08:28:19 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: vwwesty <vwwesty(-at-)indybudd.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] How many different A/C units were available for the  

Ok,

As much as I remember right now.  When I started working for VPC sometime 
in 73 or 74 as a Master R&D Tech,, they still had the "secret" front 3 
feet of a bay window body sitting in the R&D shop.  It was shipped to them 
from Germany before 1968 so they could work on fitting a very nice 
underdash unit to it in preparation for the new models.

So, right away, you know that the first models were going to get an 
underdash unit.

They also had T4 engine on an engine stand where they developed the 
compressor mount as far as they could.  I actually bought that engine 
a year later when it was time to "clean shop"...first last and only engine 
that I ever tore down that I was sorry that I did....it was perfect 
inside.

I really don't remember much development going on for the bus setup while 
I was there as it was all pretty much set by that point...the only one I 
do remember is the VW Mexico "executive" unit(both front and rear).

My buddy did tell me several weeks ago when we talked at Christmas that 
he pleaded with the director of engineering to switch to a rotary 
compressor on the bus....since price point considerations were a 
primary concern, it didn't happen, but!.. the outcome of which was that 
the late VPC mounts should be readily adaptable to a rotary compressor 
setup of some sort as he *was* allowed to re-develop them with both the 
York and rotary compressor in mind(don't know exactly when though).

I do remember several times, pulling in a bus with A/C from a local dealer
in order to try and improve the cooling.  My buddy also had a bay window 
bus, so he was well aware of the problems with hot air recirculation in 
the engine compartment and so on.  The bottom line though was that 
condense was about as big and efficient as we could get it....the major 
problem being how to improve airflow inside the evaporator in the bus with 
limited room and trying to keep some sort of esthetically good look.

I left there sometime around 76 to go back to school and get a graduate 
degree, so anything later than that time would have been hearsay from my 
friend.

So, to answer your questions below.  I don't remember the *top* rear mount 
unit ever being offered by itself...too far from the driver to make people
comfortable. Unfortunately, I didn't help much with the bus A/C unit as I 
was mostly doing aftermarket/factory stuff for the Porsche, Mercedes and 
BMW folks.

I will add that the Porsche folks almost seemed to go out of their way
to make things hard to install(needing special tools and so on).  The 
BMW's that I worked on back then were a dream to work on....nice 
fasteners, you could take almost everything on those cars apart with 
normal hand tools...and get it back together easily.  Fit and finish were
absolutely superb....compare that to a new Chevette....it got to the 
point that I would not work on it because none of the sheet metal parts 
were "broke" at the edges...all of them had *razor* sharp edges...you 
absolutely could not put your hand in the engine compartment with cutting 
yourself badly.

Don't know of any sites except Richards that have A/C info...I don't even 
have an instruction sheet for the "new" unit I picked up last April.

One more note...

*ALL* air cooled A/C units were installed either by the dealer or more 
than likely at the port of entry.  That's why most units were not shipped 
with instructions(cost savings).  To my knowledge *no* air cooled units 
were *ever* shipped to Germany.

Rabbit/Golf/Audi  units were a different matter.

Cheers, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Thu, 27 Jan 2005, vwwesty wrote:

> Dave, some interesting info, going on memory do you recall if the rear mount
> system was offered as a stand alone option, or was a rear unit just used in
> combo with a front one?
> 
> Anyone know if there are currently any websites devoted to bus A/C or a good
> A/C section on one of the sites with pictures and what not of what AC was/
> is available for the type 2?
> 
> 
> I don't own a bus at the moment let alone one with a AC system in it to
> tinker with, so I wouldnt be much help as far as first hand knowledge goes.
