To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 13 Dec 2002 16:03:05 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] bus toy bashing (friday)

as a kid, i always hated the matchbox cars because they had plastic
chassis and the wires that held the wheels were so thin you couldnt HELP
but bend them, even me, who NEVER played crash derby with my cars (maybe
cuz i;m a girl). the most damage mine saw was just from carrying them
EVERYWHERE i went. i still have a yellow baja beetle with real rubber
tires and an orange van with rubber knobby tires called "baja breaker".
the only flaws in either are a tiny chip in the paint on a corner/edge on
the beetle and perhaps the same on the van. i have the beetle in my
collection now, so that is why i remember it, but not the condition of
the van.

anyway, i have been known to buy toys if they even REMOTELY resemble
VWs... of coarse now that i dont have steady income, i cant afford that,
so i have to be alot more selective. i dont care how many different
version of the same "crappy casts" i get cuz i like the variety. you
never know, it is the more rare variations that end up being worth more
money in the end cuz people cant find that one any more. they also add
value because not only do they fit in the "VW collectibles" catagory, but
now they also fit in the "spongebob", "rugrats", "surfer" collectible
catagories as well, making them more valuable (regardless of their
quality, or lack there of). hey! chince is collectible, too, so there ya
go! cheap is good!

waving and wishin i had more money to buy more junky toys,
chris
70 westy
65 euro sunroof beetle
300-400 VW toys

On Fri, 13 Dec 2002 16:56:33 +0000 "Bus Gypsy" <busgypsy(-at-)msn.com> writes:
...  Now don't get me wrong, for a kid, 
> these are great, but almost no value to a seriuos collector.  There 
are just 
> way too many!  Matchbox, from what I have seen, has two terrible 
catings of 
> the bus.  Does not even have the strip of metal between the 
windshields.  
> Hot wheels are all drag cars with different paint jobs. 
