Date: Sun, 15 Dec 2002 15:41:29 -0800
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Replace OIl Cooler Seals?

Doktor Tim wrote:

> Oil cooler access requires engine R&R. 

I was told awhile ago by a list member who claimed to have done it, that 
it is possible to get to the oil cooler without taking the engine out, 
which is what I am attempting. I am most of the way there, with all tin 
off and pretty much everything on top of the motor. I could pull the 
motor, but I am trying to avoid it. I am pretty sure it can be done, but 
I think I will have to take the heat exchangers off to free the fan 
housing which is really where my question is. Is there a way to get the 
fan housing off with the heat exchangers on? I don't think there is, but 
I wanted to be sure before I mess with the exhaust, since that means I 
will have to go get new exhaust gaskets.

> Make sure it's not just the pressure switch.

I did. I ran it for awhile with a paper towel around the pressure 
switch, and it got no oil on it whatsoever while a puddle developed 
under the engine. I wiped the tops and bottoms of the valve covers, and 
no oil, and it certainly doesn't seem to be coming from the case parting 
line, so I am pretty sure it is the oil cooler.

> Aftermarket type pressure switches do fail all the time within a few 
> years. Get a VDO switch if that's your leaker.

I have the dual VDO sender I installed earlier this year, and have 
plumbed it above the tin. Like I said, I am pretty sure that this is not 
the problem, but thatnks for the thought.

> If you don't want to go back in there very soon, then take the time to 
> pull the motor and replace all the seals and gaskets. Then you will 
> nix oil leaks for a good long time.

Planing on doing the valve covers and push rod tubes, as well as the 
cork gasket under the oil breather box, the oil cooler seals,  and the 
seals on the varios sump stuff. Any other seals I should be replacing?

> This assumes your not wasting time on a motor with a weak cylinder. 
> Verify the compression balance or you could well be back in there too 
> soon. 

125 plus or minus 5 pounds all the way around. Only 50k since the last 
rebuild, and it runs strong, it just started loosing oil like a sieve.

> What if the oil leak is actually associated with blowby and/or just a 
> clogged breather?? 

With pressure this good, I am pretty sure it is not blow by. I am pretty 
damn sure it is the oil cooler leaking, but how do I check the breather?

Thanks for your help,
-Nick
'77 Riviera
