Date: Sun, 15 Dec 2002 19:36:51 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Front rubber mats, qustion about bench seat compatability

Hello list,

I was looking through the archives and I found the
answer to a Question that I had and it spawned
another.
Once I finish the project of getting my engine
installed and running, I am going to focus on the cab
compartment of my bus. BTW, I have a 74 bus with a
bench seat in the front. I have already striped the
entire front area and coated it with some primer. I am
going to remove most of the primer by sanding  it and
then I am going to coat the entire area with a coat of
POR 15 grey paint and I am going to finish it with a
POR 15 whitecote. That paint should hold up to daily
wear and tear and moisture. 

I like the idea of using the stock rubber mats in the
front for wear reasons rather than using carpet. I
looked in the archives and found that the bus depot
carries the seat pedistool mats( item # 211 863 665B
),but I have a question. Will these mats work with my
bus since I have a bench seat in the front? Did they
ever make a rubber mat that went between the wheel
wells in the front under the bench seat?

 Oh, BTW, I am ready to install my 914 engine and I
will be doing that tomorrow if all goes as planned. I
had put the engine together on an old microwave cart
that i drug in the back yard. I have no work space.
Anyway, my dad and I easily lifted the bare long block
on to the cart so I could finish assembling it. Now
that it is almost complete, I can barely shift it
around on the cart. I don't think my dad and I will be
able to lift it and put it on the hand cart to roll it
to the bus. I think it will take at least 3 or 4
average size people to safely lift it. I took pictures
of it but my USB port has been acting srewy lately so
I can't post them. 

About the free items and such, I will be working on
shipping them out tomorrow. I cant guarentee ahtat I
will have them all shiped out buy then but I hope to
have most of them in the mail.
Thanks for your responses!

Have a great day!

David Kelly
From Wilmington, NC 
