Date: Wed, 29 Oct 2003 17:06:20 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I Sure Could Use A Little Help!

Esteemed Los Angeles Area List-ites:

The recent unfortunate turn of events in San Diego now preclude the use
of Father's Friendly Workshop & Den of Mechanical Iniquity, n/k/a Large
Smoldering Lumps of Charcoal.  Were it not for some occurrences which
beggar the imagination, the recently purchased 1776cc long block for the
wife's Ghia from good ol' Adrian at Headflow Masters [a big
Savethebays.org thanks to Don B. in Oceanside, CA - Big D. you OK, bud?]
might well be "snowing" all over San Diego as well :-0

We were scheduled to pick up the motor, and spend a little time doing
some tin welding and drill pressing at FFW&DMI, n/k/a LSLC last weekend,
but those plans were not meant to be...  We had intended to get the new
1776cc packed into the Ghia just in time for the VW show over in
Mexicali the weekend of November 8/9, 2003.  BTW anyone from the SoCal
area that wants to tag along with us in a bus/bug/ghia-a-van to Mexicali
for the show are more than welcome to join us - language skills not
required, only insurance, an FRS radio, and the desire to have some fun
meeting fellow VW fans.  Getting back on point, though - I'll be needing
to ask a favor of any area list-ites with a drill press and welding
skills to lend a hand to a fellow bus pilot, sometime over the next
couple of weeks, post 11/9/03 :-)  This is, of course, predicated on
your OWN-selves not being up to your "ash-h*les in snow"...  I "could"
drill and tap all the holes I need by hand, but I'm straight outta luck
on fixing the stress cracks in the DP tin...

I'm more than happy to trade some "bus/bug/ghia-help" for a little shop
time.  Or some beer.  I much prefer to work on a Type 4 motor, but if
you threaten me with wet noodles, I'll diagnosis a Type 1 motor, too.
Tell you some stories.  Spackle your den.  Martinize your shorts.  Heck,
I may even summarize a deposition for you, if you got any extras just
laying around...  Pleasepleaseplease keep any replies to this request
for assistance "off-list" as I don't wish to vex, annoy or harrass any
T2 listees upon whom a little "snow" mayn't fall...

And now for the PSA to this post...

One last thing - next time you wander off into the tinder-dry woods to
hunt, please take a whistle or a signal mirror, a compressed air horn,
or some other non-incendiary means of letting people know your location
should you become lost...  By not lighting that signal fire, one of the
hundreds of homes you save may be your own!

Jim Hayden
Now missing a b*tt-tric met-load of air-cooled stuff - sh*t!
www.savethebays.org
