From: "David & Susan Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Oct 2003 20:36:41 -0600
Subject: Lights and Noise

Had a frighteneing experience the other night. I was driving my 74 into town
at around dusk when all of a sudden all the lights went dim and great
quantities of smoke came rolling out of every opening in the dashboard. I
turned off the headlights and pulled into a parking lot to see what I could
see.

The fuses were all good, the engine would start without any trouble, but
every time I pulled the headlight switch the engine would struggle and the
smoke would start to roll. I felt around under the dash and found (by
burning my finger on it) a fried wire coming from the headlight switch. It
is the wire that feeds the instrument lights and which I had tapped into to
feed the guage lights. (Been running that way for over a year) I assumed
that the wiring to the guages on top of the dash had chafed and shorted to
ground. I pulled the connector off the switch and away we go.

Imagine my surprise when, upon closer inspection, I find the the guage light
wiring is just fine; it's the original wire to the instrument lights that
has burned! I didn't find any bad places on the wire, but it was pretty
fried so actually ALL the places on the wire were bad, Could the bulbs have
burned out and somehow shorted? I clipped the burned lead and now the guage
lights are working just fine, but of couse I have no instrument lights.

I guess I have to pull the instrument panel to see what's what. Do I have to
pull the steering wheel to get the panel out? Any suggestions are
appreciated.

Now the noise: If I restart the engine after sitting for a few minutes there
is a scrapey-grindy kind of noise for a second or two--about as long as it
takes for the oil pressure to come up.This is an AVP 1.8 liter with
hydraulic lifters and a Webber progressive carb. The engine runs great, good
power, getting 15 mpg city and 20 on the highway, no oil leaks or
consumption. I run 20w50 in the summer and 10w40 in the winter and have for
the whole 36,000 miles this engine has been on the road. I changed the oil a
couple weeks ago and found nothing at all in the strainer and no gassy smell
to the oil. Can anyone recommend some diagnostic procedures to figure out
what the problem might be?

Thanks for any opinions or suggestions!

Regards,
Dave
