From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Thu, 30 Oct 2003 00:28:38 -0600 (CST)
To: jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com (Faster-Laster)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type2 Bus List), vintagebus(-at-)type2.com (Vintage Bus 
Subject: Re: [VB] welding prep advice

A drill press for sure--and a good table vise to hold it--and a
appropriate Milwaukee hole saw--they have more teeth per inch than the
average hole saw--

It could be done in a standard bench vise and a good hole saw--but make
sure the drill is a 1/2"-and it as a accessory handle on it--just behind
the chuck--
When it grabs--hold on to your shorts--it'll try and tear your arm off--

Clean the welding area's real good with a grindin wheel or a wire wheel
on a 4" hand grinder--and be sure to apply anti spatter spray at the
welds --it'll help the area clean and welds spatter free--

Have Fun--

 
E-mail message   
 
From: jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com (Faster-Laster) Date: Wed, Oct 29, 2003,
9:09pm To: type2(-at-)type2.com (Type2 Bus List), vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
(Vintage Bus List) Subject: [VB] welding prep advice 
Well this weekend I will be working on a little project for the westy.
Gonna work on that roof rack I've been meaning to do for a long time. 
Welding the tubes together is no prob. cutting them is no problem. What
I'm having trouble w/ is cutting the butt joints. I need to be able to
(hopefully quickly) cut a simi-circle in the end of some of the tubes so
that making a tee w/ two tubes is possible and close fitting before
welding. 
Anyone have any suggestions? The best results from what I have tried
have been from a hole saw, but it's honestly not very good. the hole
saws I have found really don't have enough teeth to keep the vibrations
down. Angle grinder works ok, but I cant' really get a good finished
end. I had thought about a grinding stone in the correct diameter, but
haven't tried that. 
comments, suggestions and plain old encouragement welcome. I'd like to
have room to put more stuff on our next trip, hopefully Missouri Bus
Fallout.
