From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: wfp3(-at-)lycos.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 30 Oct 2003 16:26:33 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] brake switches/DM

  Back to the German parts AGAIN. Half of the German parts aren't made in
Germany for our buses anyway. So paying big money for a brake light switch
because it is German?. ONLY if stamped on the part Made In Germany will I
believe that and who's to say that it is any better then a part made
elsewhere. Germany has high and low standerds as does the rest of the world.

  I have brake light switchs in stock (2 prong) with the little divider in a
beautiful white box that says TUV certified (german highway) even has
"original part" written in German and english (I also have oil pressure
switchs from the same company), but I won't say it is a "made in Germany
part". My importer says that they bought them from a German company, but who
really knows where it was made. East Germany is making a lot of parts in old
factorys, but those that have seen any thing that has come from East Germany
knows that they are no better then China, maybe worse.
  So even if a part is from Germany maybe it's from the east, so who knows
how good they are.

ronnie  what is the best!
 

-----Original Message-----
From: Billy [mailto:wfp3(-at-)lycos.com]
Sent: Thursday, October 30, 2003 11:17 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] brake switches/DM


Dr Tim said:

>But soon your troubles will be over, no more >decisions to make. The German
item will be NLA due >to lack of justifiable sales and then the price of
>the junk will jump to $20, for the same $5 crap. >That's reality. 

Dr. Tim is grouchy about standards lately, and that's okay, I believe he has
high standards and wants the best for all of us, that's why he's here and
I'm glad of it.  But as a member of "us" I'd like to bring it back towards
the center for a minute.

Many of us acquire "projects" to be nice about it, and many of us are also
saving abandoned buses for later that might've not made it at all.

I'm already in a grand for the '65 I bought just back in June. I can't
justify $60 for brake switches when I don't have seatbelts yet. It's just
the fact of the matter. We're all doing LOTS of things with our money
besides driving VW's around. We're doing the best we can, that's why we're
on the list.

Buy German when you can afford it or you really want to. Support the BUS
SPECIFIC list vendors no matter what. Keep the bus running and fuctional
whatever you have to do. 
Don't feel guilty for not being a German Engineer.

Billy
