Date: Mon, 5 Nov 2001 11:53:17 -0800 (PST)
From: Jon Syder <syder(-at-)vache.ucdavis.edu>
To: kombi1976(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject:  Re: [T2] On FI 


Actually I think the FI system IS simple and reliable especially with the
later (simpler) control units.  Most of the trouble seems to be bad
electrical connections caused by poor maintenance. 

Altogether now, "change ALL your fuel lines, including the ones venting
the gas tank, IMMEDIATELY after you buy the vehicle".

The excellent trouble shooting pages on the type2 site, or the manuals,
and a minimal test kit will get things sorted out promptly.  Even the
simple 30 year old VW(Bosch) system does seem to account for temperature
and altitude variations MUCH better than carbs. Compared to how rapidly
dual carbs go out of tune (and most folks do not account for wear in fuel
jets, throttle shafts, or crud in the throttle body over time) I think FI
has it all over them.
	As a PO of a triple-carbed '70's Aussie car (GTR-XU1) I know how
much of a hassle multi carb systems can be and there was no way that car
could have passed an IM test. Fortunately even slightly out of tune it
still flew :)  
	The rice-rocket folks especially seem to have modern production
automotive FI figured out.  The off roaders too are enthusiastic to get
around off-angle carb metering woes. If you wanted to work up a modern
system I would suggest consulting with one of those two groups. I have yet
to see any completely aftermarket FI systems for any on-road vehicle at
what I think is a reasonable price.  I don't think any open loop systems
(all 'aftermarket manufactured' systems that I have seen for sale) are
practical for road use.  There are a lot of TBI(throttle body injection)  
conversion systems using mainly GM parts available which probably work
very well, many for ACVW. MPI(multi port injection) (the VW/Bosch way) is
often regarded as preferable to TBI for evenness of fuel distribution.  
An important factor in heat management amongst other virtues.  jon


In a message dated 11/5/01 4:53:25 AM, kombi1976(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< I'm not saying that FI engines are wrong,I'm just yet
to be satisfied by their supporters.
Please set me straight.
Otherwise I'll continue to believe that VW didn't
design a system that was as practical as it needed to
be. >>                                                   

Jon Syder
Persevere, adapt, overcome.






