Date: Tue, 6 Nov 2001 17:15:18 +0000 (GMT)
From: wallace.bob(-at-)btinternet.com
To: steve.horak(-at-)edop.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Rear hatch lock

Hi Steve,

I fixed a non opening rear hatch in a Bay for one of our club members a couple of months back. Chances are that, as with his lock, its just rusted up with nothing broken.

First remove any cushions etc from the tailgate area then climb ito it.

Remove the trim which is on the lower part of the rear hatch - if its 'standard' or Westfalia then its held on with push on studs so a screwdriver behind the trim will lever them out. Of course yours may be screwed in or some other type of fitting.

Now you can see the inside of the lock. The key barrel has a tab on the end which when the key is turned allows/stops a lever holding a stepped cam in place to move/not move. If an assistent turns the key and you can see the tab moving and then pushes the button and the lever moves then the lock and button part of the catch is not broken.

When the button is pushed the lever moves and the stepped cam (which is spring loaded) should rotate, looking towards the back of the van my memory is that the axis of the cam is to the right of the button and that when its released it turns anti-clockwise.

Assuming that the cam doesn't move and that the spring is not broken (broken spring means get a new catch from the scrap yard) begin the remedial work by squirting loads of your favorite releasing agent onto the cam area. Then take an old screwdriver or similar implement and place it on the cam and hit the other end with a hammer so that the cam is forced to turn in the direction you want it to go, at the same time ensure that the lever is dissenged from the step cam by your assistant pressing the button outside.
Eventualy it will move a bit - squirt some releasing agent on then knock the cam back to the starting point before moving it in the release direction again. Repeat until the tailgate suddenly opens (assistant should beware it doesn't fly up and hit them in the face).

Now you can see the two allen headed screws in the bottom edge of the tailgate that hold the catch in place - remove them (a peice of tube to increase the leverage on the allen key helps) and thus the catch.

Apply loads more of your favorite releasing agent and using vice grips, hammers, swear words etc you and your assitant rotate the claw of the lock to an fro untill it moves easily and springs back crisply when the release lever is pressed.

Assembly as they say is the reverse of dissassembly.

All the parts and the way the lock works should be fairly obvious once you have the trim panel off and can see it.

Good luck
Bob Wallace
Bristol UK
1998 T2

> Hello all,
> 
> With all this talk of the engine hatch lock, I thought perhaps one of you
> might know where I can find a rear hatch lock (not sure if that's what it's
> properly termed--the hatch above the engine hatch) for a '78. My key turns
> the lock, but the hatch won't budge an inch. My repair shop suggested
> installing a new lock, which seems sensible enough. Any idea where I can
> order one online, or elsewhere for that matter?
> 
> Thanks!
> 
> Steve
> '78 Bus/Camper/Work in Progress 
> 
> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
>   To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to: type2-unsubscribe(-at-)pon.type2.com
>   To email the admin for list help only: type2-admin(-at-)pon.type2.com
>  For additional commands send any e-mail to: type2-help(-at-)pon.type2.com
> ----------------------------------------------------------------------
> 

