Date: Tue, 06 Nov 2001 12:36:42 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: MagWriter2001(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] GoWesty 15" tire and wheel package

This is a important topic for me too.

The alloys on that web page are after market Mercedes wheels that have been 
modified slightly (center bores modified) I think.

The steel wheels on the site can be gotten from one of the wheel/tire 
wholesalers. They sell them as part of a winter tire / steel wheel package 
for the Mercedes too. You can get just the wheels. Don't mention that they 
are going on a VW bus because they will lock up and not discuss them with you.

Liability issues I'm sure.

That said I think if you check, the Mercedes heavyweight cars weigh the 
same or heavier than our busses AND I believe the station wagon is rated to 
carry a huge heavy load equal or greater than our busses.

At one time (1980's) they bragged that their station wagon was rated to 
haul more weight than a Jeep Cherokee.

Would be interesting to see if that is still true about the current models.

If so I would feel confident these wheels would be strong enough for our 
applications. Passat and Audi wheels would be okay but maybe not rated for 
as much weight.

Anyhow the last time I checked the Mercedes steel wheels were less than $50 
from the tire wholesalers. You'll have to invent your own hubcaps 
style/solution. There is a different lugnut requirement too. Answers in the 
archive.

Also another lister mentioned one time that locally you may have a race car 
builder that can modify your existing VW wheel from 14" to 15" by removing 
the rim and leaving the center portion of the wheel and then welding in a 
new 15" rim. Stockton Wheels in CA is one of several wheel shops that can 
do this job too. Anyone know the price? I knew once long ago. This way you 
can use your OEM VW hubcap too.









Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

