To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jonathan Cunningham <dawfun(-at-)seanet.com>
Date: Fri, 20 Jan 2006 20:50:02 -0800
Subject: DVDA Distributor, mechanical advance?

So, I'm working on getting my idle speed to settle down and improve 
general performance of my '70 bus (34 PICT-3), and I'm thinking there 
may be something wrong with my distributor.

I was experimenting with the vacuum advances and timing, and it 
appeared that when I disconnected both vacuum hoses, and then ran the 
engine at 3000rpm, that there was no advance at all.  Does the DVDA 
distributor have mechanical advance?  If so, mine doesn't appear to be 
operational.  It also doesn't appear to be advancing a whole lot anyway 
when the vacuum is hooked up and the engine is at 3000rpm (the mark on 
the pulley moves from slightly BTDC to about 1cm before the 
intersection of the belt and the pulley).

I've noticed that the advance plate in the distributor doesn't really 
move very smoothly (it's worse when going back to it's retard 
position), but both sides of the vacuum biscuit will hold vacuum, so 
I'm pretty sure it's not a vacuum leak in the vacuum advance unit.  I 
squirted some penetrating oil around the slightly rusted parts inside 
the distributor (on the plate, and down the shaft, avoiding the 
points), but that doesn't seem to have done much to improve things.

The problem I'm trying to solve is that the idle is moderately erratic 
(not horrible, but I'm sure it could be better), and that the engine 
will stall sometimes when I approach a stop-signal...I can goose it 
with some gas right before I stop, and it won't stall.  I'm guessing 
that the distributor might be worn out, or in need of rebuilding (can I 
do that?).

Does anyone have a recommendation for a good quality replacement 
distributor for my DVDA?  Is there anything else I can try/test to 
validate what might be going wrong with my engine before I spend a lot 
of money swapping parts?

Oh...and one other thing...what does a worn out fuel pump sound like?

Thanks,

Jonathan
Tacoma, WA
