From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 23 Jan 2006 8:31:55 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] wanted: watercooled replacement engine for 1973 Bus

My understanding is that the Bay VW Bus is STILL being produced in Brazil. They call it the Khombi.

http://www.vw.com.br/automoveis/kombi/main.asp

Recently, Volkswagen was forced by the local emissions laws in Brazil (seriously) to convert the Khombi to watercooled.

All new VW Busses in Brazil are now watercooled. It comes with a 1.4 liter watercooled four.
Here's a picture of it from their site: http://www.vw.com.br/automoveis/kombi/imagens/main_dest_2.jpg

I'd imagine that... you could probably buy all this stuff off the internet or from one of those parts suppliers that buys stuff from mexico, etc.. and install it in your Bus. Those VW Khombi's are identical to our busses with the exception of some minor things like.. higher roof line, slightly revised body molding, different weatherstripping, etc. 

The suspensions and everything are the same.

You'll notice in the pictures that they now have a large radiator in the front... but I suspect that you could probably install a radiator underneath the car... or maybe a couple of them at an angle with full time radiator fans.

I'd suspect that the water cooled 1.4 is probably quicker too.

I can't imagine that any local state government would have a problem with this either.. considering that you'd be significantly improving emissions. I think even the Communist State of California would be thrilled!!! :)


Anyway, just thought I'd post this... it would seem to me that it might be easier to just buy something that literally bolts RIGHT in, rather than fabricating your own stuff. Considering that the VW Bus is now water cooled in Brazil... I would expect that they'll probably keep that platform around for a LONG LONG time. It's like one of their primary taxi vehicles. I think we'll see the Bus there for at least another 7-8 years.


Do they still make the Vanagon in Africa? Or is that over with now?


Todd
