Date: Mon, 23 Jan 2006 10:43:36 -0800
From: support(-at-)volks-web.net
To: Karen Jones <Rock_N_Soul(-at-)msn.com>,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] my new bus...

I don't want to harsh your mellow, and I don't know if you're a previous 
bus owner, but...

The condition looks really rough on this 66.  I'd be VERY concerned 
about front beam rust issues - if you don't know about this, ask the 
list.  It may be your life, not only your money.  Also BRAKES.  Other 
listees may want to look at the pics closely and advise...

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=263954

I wouldn't bet on driving this one at 75-80 for a couple of hours.  ;-) 
  I've found that generally, engine condition is reflected in the care 
shown the rest of the vehicle - and what you have here is some major 
neglect.  In addition to the appalling rust shown in the pics (on the 
steering column and dash??? and that flintstone hole in the floor might 
indicate that this bus is swiss cheese) and looks like significant rust 
in the windshield frame. There's evidence of water damage on the rear 
cabinet and deck (and is that mold on the deck under the cushion?  Some 
kinda black stuff, ewww.), the front interior pieces have been stripped 
(kick panels and door panels), and what's up with the plywood under the 
drivers seat?  No driver seat adjustment and the seats are mismatched. 
Then there's what you CAN'T see in the ad - the rear interior shots are 
so dark there could be anything in there.  There's no shot of the engine 
compartment, middle floor or the interior roof.  Betcha there's no 
headliner and some good rust up there.

With the level of interior rust shown and signs of water damage, I would 
suspect this bus has sat for an extended period with major leaks - 
promoting the interior rust and damaging cabinetry and cushions beyond 
salvation.

Buyer Beware!  I sure wouldn't put any money up front - go see it and 
have a checklist of items that have to pass inspection.  It sounds as if 
you're buying this bus to drive, not restore from the ground up with 
replacement panels and much welding and new cabinetry - so...

T
