Date: Fri, 21 Dec 2001 20:58:55 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: ahh.. the joys of owning a vw bus

Well, if blowing out my engine, not passing smog, and having a crack in
my windshield weren't enough, just today my clutch went out (luckily in
front of my house).

So, I figure, oh, it must just be that the cable broke.  So, I go under,
pull the cable and put the new one in.  Well, while under my car trying
to blow bits of dirt off my face (and reminding myself to buy some
goggles), I notice that the top bolt of the bracket that holds the
rubber flex tube is broken off in the tranny.  What a joy :)

Out comes the drill and the bits and the puller tool and I just now got
done drilling a hole in the old bolt... this is all while the tranny is
in the car, of course.  I sprayed it with a nice stream of WD40, so I
figure I might as well pass some time and write to the list about the
joy I'm having right now..

But you know, the way I look at it, my car insurance premiums are low, I
don't have high lease payments like my friends and their new cars, I
know how to fix my car, and just think, if these buses weren't so
hands-on and exciting, this list wouldn't be here for me to share all
this joy with all of you :)

however, I think my family is just having bad luck with cars.  My dad
got rear-ended two weeks ago, and yesterday my mom got rear-ended, too,
in her new VW golf.  It only had 200 miles on it!  and get this, the
lady that hit her.. she bailed!  My mom couldn't even get the license
plate.. the nerve of some people.

And I wouldn't even think I've got bad karma going or anything.  I'm
usually pretty nice to people so I don't think that would factor in. 
People tell me I'm a dork for posting my picture on hotornot.com, but I
don't think that would lead to car problems.. that's just plain
cheeezy.. I am an 8.4 though!  woo hoo!

Well, I am hoping that the 4dw (as my dad keeps calling it) has soaked
into all the little cracks so I can use my bolt puller thingie to yank
that sucker out.  I tried once and it started twisting the tool, so I
figured lube would help it out :)

keep the faith! (I'll be repeating that over and over while under my bus
:)

later,
Mike
-- 
[...]
