From: "Tammy" <tammy(-at-)tammy890.freeserve.co.uk>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 22 Dec 2001 18:37:30 -0000
Subject: Tale of Joy and Choke Question!

Hiya Everyone

I want to share my joy with some folks who may appreciate it (unlike
everyone else I have told, who just muttered "big deal").

I decided today I was going to find out what the knob below the driver's
seat was for.  Although I knew it was heat related, it's actual purpose has
had me beat since I bought my camper almost a year ago.

The knob was too stiff to move at first, but after spraying with WD40, till
I thought the smell would kill me, I got it free.  While my daughter pushed
it in and out (each move accompanied by the whine "Can I go back in now it's
cold?"), I got under the bus to see what it did.

It turns out, the cable was still there, (and working - just about), and it
joined to the centre heating channel.  From this, there is a black
flexi-pipe going somewhere into the camper..  So where the hell did this go,
I wondered?  I followed a straight line from the pipe out from under the
side and into the back of the camper.

Imagine my joy, when I discovered a heater vent going side-to-side, from the
driver's seat to the passenger seat, aiming towards the back.  It has been
hidden by the carpet all this time.

Five minutes later the carpet is trimmed, the knob is pulled out as far as
it will go and I took it for a test run - YIPPEE - heat in the back.  Now
the kids won't freeze everytime we go out.  Okay, so it's VW heat - the kids
will still freeze - but they might get away with a few less layers :-)

Now onto my problem.  The automatic choke isn't going off all the way - even
when the engine is warm - it is still staying on one notch.

At the moment, I am just getting out after a few minutes and knocking it off
manually, but I know it can be adjusted somehow on the side of the carb.
Trouble is, that is all I do know.  So, can anyone give me details of
exactly what I need to do or send me to a site that explains it.

Thanks, and Merry Christmas to all

Tammy



