Date: Mon, 24 Dec 2001 11:06:18 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <steve(-at-)unliketea.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Exaust Leak

On Mon, 24 Dec 2001 steve(-at-)unliketea.com wrote:

> Whould brass(copper,zinc) be an exceptable subsitute?

Steve,

We are into "the joys of electronegativity" here and way beyond my
league.  I am going to do the very barest basics below and  hope that
George Lyle or someone else who knows chemistry/physics will step in and
correct me if I stray.

Every element has a property know as electronegativity .  The lower the
value of this property, the more willing it is to corrode [1].  If you
take iron (1.83) as a middle value, then Zinc (1.65) is more willing to
corrode and copper (1.9) is less willing to corrode.  Added to that, you
have to consider the mechanical strength of each of the metals.  Both zinc
and copper are more malleable than iron, however, and brass is a very soft
alloy.  Add a bit of tin (1.96) and it becomes much harder and much more
corrosion resistant.  It also becomes bronze.

On boats, brass is very rarely used. What happens is that the zinc goes
away, leaving a sort of sponge of copper.  That sponge is corrosion
resistant, but has the mechanical strength of a bath sponge and fails very
quickly.  I would expect that in the exhaust system of a car, the same
thing would happen faster.  The greater the heat, the faster the
reactions run.

Corrosion resistance is very much a MEGO (my eyes glaze over) subject for
me.  Once you get into alloys (Silicon bronze, boron steels. etc.), I look
it up in a table or read the spec sheet from the manufacturer.  What I
know from experience is:
(a) there are no perfect materials;
(b) stainless steel is more rust-resistant than plain steel but softer;
(c) silicon bronze is between plain and stainless in corrosion resistance
    and nearly as hard as plain steel.

A second consideration for me is that I do want the cheaper part to be
softer.  That is, I want the nut to fail, not the stud to pull.  Working
(as we are) with aluminum and magnesium in the head, finding a softer
material is a challenge, so I will settle for softer than the stud into
the head.  My gut says use silicon bronze first (if I could find it),
stainless steel second, pure copper third, and plain steel last.


                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

[1] corrosion is a gross simplification, it is really willingness to
donate/accept electrons and therefore form ionic compounds (like FeO3
(rust :-)).  For our purposes, corrosion will do.

