Date: Mon, 24 Dec 2001 17:11:21 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To:  <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: A Very Productive Day!  (Front Axle Beam)

Volks,

I had a very good VW day today.  When Ron had his one-day sale, I ordered
a new beam which I intend to install on the '73.  This is beam intallation
#4 for me, and the second on  the '73, so I am pretty familiar with what
needs doing :-)  This is the first time I am working with a new beam, thos
which should make the job much easier.

Let me start with the beam.  It is *beautiful*!!!!  It is, as advertised,
bare, however.  You get the beam and the needle bearings and that's about
it.  You will need to flop most everything off your old beam onto the new
on.  Not a problem, and what I expected.

As I look at it, however, I will be calling Bus Depot on Wednesday and
ordering a couple things that I don't feel comfortable swapping from the
old to the new beam.  The parts I intend to order are:
center pin rebuild kit;
trailing arm grease seals;
grease (Zerk) fittings (3 straight, 2 90 degree bend);
bump stops.

To save time, and since i knew that Jeff Stewart had just replaced his
beam, I called him and asked if he still had the old beam and if so, could
I buy/have it.  He did still have it and brought it over yesterday.  I
spent the day today taking that beam apart and I learned something which I
am here to tell you (get them in the archives :).

A bit of a discovery... on the torsion springs... we have been talking by
times about how they ought to be welded at the end to allow the leaves to
align and the trailing arms to go on.  I remember from past beams and ball
joint jobs that sometimes the leaves were welded and sometimes not.  I had
never paid particular attention, I just noted the on-again-off again
nature of the welds.  Today, because I was trying to keep track of which
end was which for intallation in the new beam, I was watching closely and
noted that both the upper and lower sets were welded on the drivers side
but not on the passengers side.  I looked closely and saw no sign that
there had ever been a weld on the passengers side.  I think this may be
deliberate and have come up with a new procedure in my mind for getting
the torsion arms on.

When I get to that stage with the new beam, I am going to do as I usually
do for an un-welded spring set and tie them with a zip-tie (I don't have a
welder).  In the past, this has always (with requisite cursing) done the
job for me :-)  I am going to leave the driver' sside arms for second
*and* I am going to leave the center lock screw out until the passenger
arms are on and seated.  I will report how well this works.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail

