Date: Mon, 23 Jan 2006 22:03:20 -0800
From: tristan shaffer <tristanshaffer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Matthew Russell <volksie(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Electric Fuel Pump

On 1/23/06, Matthew Russell <volksie(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:
> Is there any way to hook up an electric fuel pump so that it only gets
> power when there is oil pressure?

Matt Roberds graciously explained to me how to do this with an SPDT
relay, available at car audio shops for a couple of dollars.  Because
the oil pressure switch is open when you have oil pressure, you want
the pump to shut off when the oil pressure switch closes.

The SPDT relay has five terminals, typically marked 30, 85, 86, 87,
and 87a.   The blue and green wire from the oil pressure sender is
hooked to relay terminal 86, and a new wire is run from relay terminal
85 to the terminal on the oil pressure sender.  This puts the coil of
the relay in series with the oil pressure warning light in the
speedometer.  Relay terminal 30 is hooked to a +12V hot-in-run
(typically terminal 15 on the coil)  and then connect terminal 87a to
the +12V of the fuel pump.  The relay terminal 87 isn't attached to
anything.

So when the ignition is off, the coil is not energized and terminals
30 and 87a are closed.  But since 30 is now hot-in-run, the pump isn't
energized.  When the ignition is turned to the 'run' position, the oil
pressure switch is closed, idiot light is on, and relay coil
energized, closing terminals 30 and 87.  Since 87 isn't connected to
anything, the pump still isn't energized.  But when the oil pressure
switch opens, it cuts power to the coil and idiot light, closing
terminals 30 and 87a, and the fuel pump is energized.  The oil
pressure should be sufficient to open the switch during cranking, even
if the engine doesn't start right away.  Otherwise there should be
enough fuel in the float bowl to get it to start without the fuel pump
kicking in right away.

Depending on how much current the pump draws, it might be a good idea
to add another hot-in-run terminal in the engine room by adding
another relay and a fused line from the battery.  Too many things
connected to the coil 15 terminal might cause ignition troubles.

-Tristan
