From: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 30 Jan 2006 19:55:02 -0500
Subject: Re: Emergency FLasher Unit for 65 bus

> From: Grant Quinones <grant.quinones(-at-)gmail.com>
> Date: Mon, 30 Jan 2006 11:55:00 -0800
> 
> Long story short i need an emergency flasher relay for
> my 1965 deluxe.

The markings on the one you bought don't immediately make
any sense to me.  I have a reference at home that may
explain them, but I'm at work - I'll check later tonight.

> please help, I'd like to get my bus to my auto body
> class tomorrow. (with brake lights and turn signals)

The wiring diagram for your '65 is at 
http://vintagebus.com/wiring/bus-62-usa.jpg .  The items
you are interested in are J, J1, J6, and G.  J is the
flasher - it switches itself on and off when a load is
put on it.  A '65 has only one flasher that operates
both the turn signals and the hazard flashers.  J1 is
a relay for the hazard flashers.  It is driven by J and
is used to flash the front outside lamps in hazard mode,
so the flasher J only has to drive the load of the two
rear lamps.  J6 is the hazard switch that will start all
four outside lamps blinking.  All it does is connect all
four of its terminals together when operated, so it
doesn't matter which wire goes where on it - this is why
the terminals aren't labeled on the diagram.  G is the
turn signal switch.

Even if you took J, J1, and J6 totally out of the Bus,
and taped up the dangly wire ends, you should still
have brake lights on both sides, as long as the turn
signal lever is in the center (off) position.  If you
don't, you have a problem in the turn signal switch G
or in the brake light switch J3.

To get turn signals (but not hazards) in a hurry, and
if your Bus has been converted to 12 V, go to the auto
parts store or even Wally World and buy a "generic"
two-prong turn signal flasher, like a #552.  At the
left side of the fuse panel in your Bus, you should
have three wire ends for the turn signal flasher:

black/white/green and black/purple in one connector
two black/white/green in one connector
blue

Connect the first wire to "X" on the #552 flasher.
Connect the second wire to "L" on the #552 flasher.
Leave the blue wire unconnected and tape up the end.
If the #552 flasher doesn't have labels on the terminals,
try it one way and if that doesn't work, try it the other
way - you won't hurt anything.

Try it out.  This should give you turn signals both front
and rear.  The hazard switch may make the rear lights
blink, but the front ones don't blink.  The arrow light
in your speedometer will never come on, but you should
be able to hear the flasher going "tink-tink-tink" when
the turn signals are on.

You can still try the above even if you have a 6 V Bus.
The #552 flasher may flash really fast or really slow,
but it should at least basically work.  You can work on
finding a 6 V flasher when you have more time.

At a minimum, you should get the brake lights working.
In many states, it's still legal to give hand turn signals
instead of using flashing lights.  As a practical matter,
95% of the other drivers on the road won't know what the
hell you're doing with your arm out the window.  If you
live in an area with low amounts of traffic, you can get
away with this, but if you're in a busy location with
lots of clueless drivers, it won't work.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
