Date: Thu, 2 Feb 2006 01:13:30 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Electric vs Mechanicle?

>From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
>Date: Sun, 22 Jan 2006 22:45:31 -0700
>
>At 12:02 AM -0500 1/23/06, claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:
>>I don't see how the worn out brushes would damage the generator.
>>They are just little square of coarbon AFAICT, and when worn down
>>they just don't push against the commutator.
>
>exactly. i assume the damage to the commutator is due to arcing
>acrost the resulting  gap... pits the metal on the commutator.

That's right.

I've also had a perfectly good brush hang up on its holder.  This was in
a vacuum cleaner, not a generator.  Symptom was that sometimes it would
run just fine and sometimes it would do nothing when you turned it on.
If you smacked the side of the vacuum, you could usually get it started.

I took it apart and found that some errant dust and crud had gotten
jammed between the brush and its holder.  The brush could kinda-sorta
contact the commutator along one edge, but it wasn't a very good
contact.  Slapping it shook things up enough for it to work.

I cleaned out the holder and the brush and got it sliding well inside the
holder.  When I first fired up the vacuum, it still arced more than the
other brush, partly because the brush I fixed wasn't worn to match the
commutator.  I let the vacuum run for a few minutes under no load so
the brush would wear itself in - the arcing mostly stopped, so I called
it good and put it back together.

When I worked over the wiper motor in my '64, I didn't turn the
commutator on a lathe, but I did polish it up with some fine sandpaper
(like 400 or 600) and cleaned out the grooves between the segments.
When I put it back together, it ran, but it would run faster if I
squeezed in on the brushes - I had taken enough off of the commutator
that the brushes and commutator weren't making full contact.  I let it
run for a few minutes, until squeezing in on the brushes didn't make it
speed up anymore.

>if i am wrong, may matt roberds fall out of the sky on top of me.......

I think I told you about my German friend who tries to make sure that
doesn't happen.  He can't always help me, though.

Matt Roberds
