From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 3 Feb 2006 23:08:01 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Muffler question

In a message dated 2/2/2006 7:53:43 P.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
vw_man_73(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

>>  Hi Eric and Barb. Thanks for all your help. I have a type 3 motor (66-67  
1500cc singleport). My flywheel outer diameter is 10 7/8" and inner diameter  
is 8".
Does this seem like a 12V? Another gentleman told me to use a rigid  disk. I 
have a beetle with an 1835cc and I seem to use it. HA! So I think I  will be 
getting on this as well. I want a reliable clutch but not one that  will be 
hard to push. I may be driving this bus from Florida to the Classic. I  don't 
have a starter for my bus so I guess I will get one from a 67  bus.
Would a beetle exhaust work on this motor? The ports on the heads  match? I 
have the 2 cutouts in the apron for the tailpipes. Thanks again.  Craig.  <<


Hi Craig,
Glad we could help.  A 12 volt gear FW can have either 180mm or 200mm  clutch 
area.  While the stock 12 volt FW will have a 200mm clutch area, one  can 
have the ring gear machined off and a six volt ring gear pressed on.   The parts 
manual lists the amount of teeth on each ring gear (hint, hint, ;-)  ).  As 
for the inner hole in the FW you need to measure the shiny area the  clutch disc 
seats to.  There is a groove outside this are to allow for dust  from the 
clutch disc to get thrown out into and through holes (like drain  holes) in the 
FW to throw the dust outside of the clutch area.   There are many websites to 
convert from inches to mm, just search for "Metric to  English conversion".
  If you do go with a 12 volt starter those were used from 1967-79 on  the 
bug and bus.
  Use a bus muffler.  VW went to a lot of trouble to design a bus  only 
muffler and it was first introduced in 1959.  The bug and K.  Ghia has air flow go 
up and over it to wash the monoxide laden exhaust away  from the rear of it.  
The bus does not have this air flow behind it so the  muffler tip needed to be 
stuck out into the air stream to suck the exhaust  away.  If this exhaust is 
allowed to build up behind the bus, it will find  any crack in the rear hatch 
or engine seal.  Due to the interior of ANY  automobile is at a lower air 
pressure than the air just around it at  highway speeds this happens easily.  If 
you enjoy having a brain, you need  to avoid monoxide.  Even in low 
concentrations it will damage brain cells  and the longer the more damage incurred.
Eric&Barb
