From: "C. Dreike" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 06 Jul 2011 19:27:30 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] sound proofing test

Hey Kevin,

If you were making your measurements on the 'C' weighted scale, you have 
about the same as I do except that I see that sound level doing 65-70mph. At 
55 its much quieter, but still loud.  If you use the other scale (A? B?) you 
should see around 84db.

I can't remember. Do you have a walk thru?
Mine is non-walk thru. I believe that part of the problem is that the cab 
about the right size to resonate. Adding 1/2" of rebond visco-elastic carpet 
padding and a nice upholstery fabric on the front door panels helped my bus 
a lot. If I can figure a nice way to do it, I'll also do the kick panels and 
the cab side of the partition. Too many hard surfaces to bounce the sound 
around. Can't do much for all the wood camper paneling in the back. I plan 
to someday replace all the vinyl seat coverings with cloth. That should also 
help some.

Regards,
Chris


From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>

Well, Chris asked about sound readings in my bus.

I drove it to Cape Cod this past week, and did a little testing with the
radio shack meter. Looks like I get somewhere between 95 and 97 decibels
while driving at ~55 mph


Still too loud. But I think it is much better than it ever was.


I didn't think of it until I got home, but I should have taken a reading
while coasting at 55-then I could see what is sound from road, what is sound
from engine.


I think a lot of sound comes to the front thru the heater tube. I still have
the original pipe and pipe insulation on the main section of pipe. I am a
little concerned about taking this off-afraid of what I might find, and
maybe unable to put it back. But if I could, I would replace this pipe with
some sort of long muffler. I think that would kill a good bit of noise.



What sort of readings did you get chris? Or anyone else try DB readings?

'65 Kombi - EZ-Camper
