Date: Thu, 7 Jul 2011 13:54:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Semi-electronic Ignition

I'd side with Neal on this one myself.  Taking the current off the points and
using them to switch the transistor switch and they will last indefinitely
without adjustment.  They will still be subject to mechanical issues, wobble,
eccentricity and wear in the dizzy of course, advance issues will be no better
with a Pertronix.  All in all, personally I run CDI's mostly, through the
points and prefer it for the exact reason that in less than a minute or so I
can be back to stock.  You lose a Pertronix module (damn rare but I've had it
happen) and you are SOL, talk about adding a layer of complexity and one not
easily reversible.  If you go with this module and no CDI you have the
ultimate reversible level of no addition of complexity and gain essentially
forgetting about the points, without losing much if anything compared to a
Pertronix or CompuFire.
 
In fact the Megasquirt's I've done (3 back in the day before they even had the
spark control, 1 later with the Bosch module, all predating the DIS) I've
still run a CDI standalone through the points, today I'd probably try DIS and
control of spark, but it is just one more thing to fail.  Not much goes wrong
suddently with a carb and a points dizzy unless you F with them.  Adjustment
for wear yes, sudden failure, not so much.

Now these sort of modules have been out forever BTW, I actually run a vintage
one made by Judson (but not the whole Judson coil unit) in my TR4A for that
vintage look, this specific one, who knows, if cheap might be a good idea, I
still prefer CDI and gapping out the plugs to match as it nets a real mileage
improvement most of the time, but...
 
YMMV of course.
 
John


--- On Thu, 7/7/11, Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:



Yuck!  The whole purpose of using electric points is to get rid of them!  So
what if your coil is triggered by a transistor if the points are still
dictating the timing.  That means you just added another intermediate level of
complexity which means there's potentially something else to fail.

Get yourself a pertronix or compufire and never adjust your points again, have
more stable and consistent timing, and reap all the benefits of whatever this
module may give you with a tiny unit that sits inside your distributor.
