Date: Thu, 7 Jul 2011 15:34:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Semi-electronic Ignition

Hi John,
    I couldn't find a source with a price for the Belgian units.  Aside from
them, any suggestions for a basic points-triggered CDI.  I have a Delta Mk10
unit but it's getting pretty old. Really easy to install tho', and instantly
reversible-press switch on side of box.  If there was a source for new units,
even new MK 10's, I am interested.  I have had very good luck with add-on CDI
boxes.  They are super at low temperatures -30F etc. I have a client that
needs one, or a complete early vanagon ignition. For some reason his ignition
needs constant fiddling. I would like to put a new manufactured CDI unit in
rather than one of unknown history.  I have been considering taking a  Toyota
dizzy and reworking the trigger parts to fit into a Bosch dizzy.  With the
electronic switch module it would be a fairly simple install, and my Toys have
been stone reliable.  Still don't end up with a CDI on that path.  The Boyer
ignition for early triumphs
 used the points cam as the magnetic trigger "wheel".  Works great, stable and
reliable and light years better than three sets of points on one cam, but who
knows how the hall sensor is set up to give consistent results.

Suggestions?  jon

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)

snip> I'd side with Neal on this one myself.  Taking the current off the
points and
using them to switch the transistor switch and they will last indefinitely
without adjustment.  They will still be subject to mechanical issues, wobble,
eccentricity and wear in the dizzy of course, advance issues will be no
better
with a Pertronix.  All in all, personally I run CDI's mostly, through the
points and prefer it for the exact reason that in less than a minute or so I
can be back to stock.
snip>
Now these sort of modules have been out forever BTW, I actually run a vintage
one made by Judson (but not the whole Judson coil unit) in my TR4A for that
vintage look, this specific one, who knows, if cheap might be a good idea, I
still prefer CDI and gapping out the plugs to match as it nets a real mileage
improvement most of the time, but...
