Date: Fri, 15 Jul 2011 22:45:23 -0700
From: Zach Drew <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Warm Air Fan - Wiring

Have spent a ton of time on my bus the last few weeks.

New pushrod tube seals. sliding door seal, ignition switch, starter,
replaced 'some' of the vacuum hoses, finished replacing all the fuel
lines and have started making some repairs to the wiring.

At some point one of the PO's spliced a section of extension cord in
between the Oil pressure sensor and the ignition coil.

There were three wires, a blue and black one, connected to the oil
pressure sensor, a black one connected to the ignition coil, positive
side I believe(1) and a white and blue wire that was not connected to
anything(trying to figure out where it should go).

My question is regarding the electric blower fan which sits in the
engine bay and is connected to the heater boxes.
My bus has a separate fan, operated by a discrete switch.

I was concerned with temperatures so I was checking out the exhaust
temp article on ratwell.com
(http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Temps.html) and my heaterboxes are
much hotter, but my j-tubes are much cooler.
my heater boxes are in the 240-260 degree range with the j tubes being
about 360 or so.  Valve covers are around 230.  This is after a pretty
good run where I was testing my timing adjustments.

One of the comments on that page is this : "The heat exchangers show
an increase in heat from front to back indicating that the exhaust
tubing and internal heatsink are heating the fresh air that the
impeller fan is blowing through."

Now the crux of the situation is should that fan be running all the
time?  Are my heater boxes hotter than they should be because there is
no air being circulated through them?
To my knowledge that fan NEVER runs on my bus.  If it should I need to
fix the wiring.

Given the fact that my bus is a 75 riviera but has a 77 block, and a
79 FI system (so basically nothing stock), the bentley wiring diagram
is only marginally useful so fixing the wiring is basically going to
entail rebuilding significant portions of my wiring harness to get rid
of all the splices.

any guidance or feedback would be greatly appreciated.

-- 
Zach Drew
Find paradise for yourself : www.radioparadise.com
