Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2011 11:35:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:  Re: [T2] Another broken-off easy-out  -  did not come

Over here Unbrakos are very high quality fasteners.  Not much more expensive
than regular stuff but better steel, and much nicer fit and finish IMHO.

http://www.unbrako.com/

EZ-Outs do need to be hard to bite into the object requiring removal. Hardness
and brittleness in steels get complicated by various alloying materials.  Not
necessarily an up-down linear thing. Great high-hardness less-brittle alloys
are probably price prohibitive for this app. None of these long thin devices
like bending stress.

My machinist mentor uses carbide dremel bits, reground (diamond wheel or
EZLap) to a pointed spade configuration, to drill out taps, drill bits and the
like. Cheap and available at most Radio Shacks/Ace Hardware and the like, or
on-line. Any SOLID carbide bit will work, even a worn out one, as you a
grinding the spade in the 1/8" shank of the original bit, not the point.
Pointed spade bits need a LOT of evenly-applied pressure, moderate rpm, and
some lube, but take no prisoners. Carbide does not like bouncing around at
all, no woodpeckering. If you can get to the eazyout/tap/whatever, and grind a
divot in it's center with a dremel diamond point, that is a great help to
start the hole.  +1 for safety glasses 

Good price for bits here.  http://leakyshower.com/regroutingbits.htm

jon

You only really own those things you can carry under both arms at a dead
run... (Robert A. Heinlein)

>Why are they so brittle?  There's nothing else that I can think of
>that breaks as easily as an easy-out (except for my heart, when it
>happens).

    Don't they have to be exceedingly hard, for their intended
function?  If so, don't we then run into a strong (if not unbreakable
;-) ) correlation between hardness and brittleness?  Can you get one
property without the other (within a given type of metal, e.g. steel)?
    An Australian brand of what I take to be the same device is:
Unbreakos.  I have known them to break.

--
Robt Mann
