Date: Fri, 18 Apr 2003 10:00:22 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Taylor Nelson <taylorvw(-at-)redshift.com>
Subject: BYOB'03 Trip Report

Hey all,

Well, I have been surprised this week to see no real trip reports from 
anyone who made it to BYOB or Kelley Park!  Anyway, I made it...I kinda had 
to being the Silicon Valley Chapter's Representative.  The pics are at 
http://www.sv2s.com/users/siliconvalleychapter/byob3

I got a late start out of San Jose for the Red Barn.  We originally had 5 
buses (Nick, Doug, Roger, Sam, & me) set to leave from SJ around 
5pm.  Wound up that only Nick and Doug were ready in time.  I got on the 
road a little after 7pm and, save for that bottleneck at 101 & 85, had 
pretty smooth sailing.  And by sailing, I mean it was breezy heading down 
there!  With a wiggly steering box, that can be a fun trip!

Pulled in at the barn around 8.30pm.  Definitely wasn't rushing to get down 
there.  Pulled up and found Doug waiting for me with another spot reserved 
for Roger & sam who weren't arriving until Saturday morning.  Spent part of 
the evening catching up with friends and then, don't ask me why, around 
10pm Nick and I decided to take a stab at replacing my speedometer 
cable.  Since buying my 67 Riviera, the speedo/odometer hasn't worked.  I 
was tired of that.  After lots of finessing, we learned that the clip had 
somehow made its way up the cable and jammed it.  Long story short, we 
finished installing the new cable around 10.45pm!

Saturday morning and the rain has pretty much held off.  A couple short 
showers in the early morning, but it remained mostly cloudy and breezy all 
day.  Things got going around 7 or 8am with more people rolling in from 
both directions.  EZ ups and canopies were the order of the day.  Saw a lot 
of  familiar faces, met a lot of new people I'd only emailed with before, 
and was surprised at who I didn't see there.  I had one item in the swap 
that was a must have: a black passenger side vent wing latch.  Never found 
it.  But I did score a new set of sun visors, front door panels, and 
such.  Little stuff.  The raffle this year was huge and we gave away so 
many items that I can't remember half of them right now.  The shirts sold 
well, and we do have some left over!!  They're all larges, however...email 
me for more info.

The awards were structured a little differently this year.  If you were 
inside the gates, you had a shot at it!  I have most all the winners 
pictured on our site, but the big surprise was that the Best of Show 
category went to Rex Eastman's single cab/pipe truck!!  It wasn't the 
cleanest, or the oldest, but it was one of the coolest!

I think the show wrapped up just a little before 1pm that day.  And by 
1.30pm we started feeling the fat rain drops fall.  Most of us looked at 
each other and figured it was time to head home.  And my god how the rain 
did fall!  I have never seen so much come down so quickly and never saw so 
much come *into* my bus.  That, of course, prompted me to name my 
camper....Richard Leaky!  Fitting, I think.

BYOB was a blast again this year.  Very laid back and enjoyable...that's 
the way we try to keep it.  I think our totals were down from last year...I 
estimate about 80 buses compared to last year's 110!  Weather probably kept 
some away, Phoenix BOR kept the others home.

Check out the pictures...there's also a lot on the Samba...if you were 
there, let me know what you thought.

-Taylor
<------------>
** taylor(-at-)sv2s.com **
1967 Riviera Camper
Taylor Nelson - Silicon Valley Chapter Rep., SV2s
http://www.redshift.com/~taylorvw/volks/
http://www.sv2s.com/users/siliconvalleychapter
http://www.sv2s.com/
