Date: Fri, 18 Apr 2003 12:01:02 -0700 (PDT)
From: Susan <a451301(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintage <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, wet
Subject: things are tough all over!

and so it says on the bumber sticker on my thing.  
so since this is friday and if i hadn't had my bus in california my thing wouldn't have been in
eugene all lonesome and vulnerable i post my request for help.

last saturday my son drove my thing to eugene (45 miles) on his first solo trip of any distance. 
i got home from california and today my neighbors gave me a ride up to get it.  so far so good.
but then i needed keys oops they fell out of my hand before i got into the truck apparently and i
just found them at home in the driveway!.  Okay to overcome that i called AAA and they came to tow
me home. 

while i was waiting i eventually sat in the driver's seat. hmmm oh here are some more wires i
wonder how they hooked up to my heater and i had my head under the dash just looking around. 
hmmmm there are NO wires hooked up to the ignition..... hmmm there is a plastic piece on the
floor. kind of hexagonal and what i would call a wiring block although there are spades sticking
off of the ignition and the wires are the female ends just hanging. 

so it occured to me that someone had tried to hotwire my car and steal it!!! My thing is camo
painted, doesn't lock soft top ok condition not great and i certainly didin't think someone would
have tried to steal it!!!  the tools were all over the floor when i got there but i just thought
it was jeff being sloppy :-)

so my request amounts to any of you guys that i have seen with things in your sigunatures i need
to know where to put those wires back on to make it work.  there is a single red wire with lots of
black stripes then there is a group of 3 wires one red one black, and one red with a single black
stripe.  the block seems to have numbers and i don't know where it goes if it goes onto the spades
and athe wires go into the block or what
the block has  germany with a number 30 below it and the holes in clockwise order say : 50  75  x 
su and p.

it is a locking ignition which is probably why my thing was still there.  yeah for locking
steering ignitions.

if it will help me i have a 66 dormo european locking ig. and a 78 riviera with a locking steering
ig but have never had either apart.

right now i have to go back to eugene in patch the riviera and pick up 6 hives of honey bees so i
won't be actually trying to solve this till tomorrow. so if any of you knowledgeble thing owners
or just knowlegeble folks could pmail me with hints solutions, links to pictures :-) i would be
indebted.

thank you very much
susan

=====
Susan 
78 Riviera 'Patch'
66 Dormobile Westy 'Zapper'
Westfalia Acres - Drain, Oregon
http://westfalia_acres.tripod.com/
