From: surlygirl(-at-)email.com
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 19 Apr 2003 09:48:51 +0800
Subject: insurance work & hobbyist's responsibility (longish)

i saved this until friday because the reason for my post started with my beetle... but my question touches all my vws.  i would like to take a poll.  if your vw was involved in an accident and insurance was going to pay for the repair, how involved would you be?

a) would the repair shop do all of the work (straightening and replacement, painting, reassembly)
b) would the repair shop do most of the work (straightening and some replacement, painting, some reassembly - some parts supplied by owner, some reassembly done by owner)
c) would the repair shop do very little of the work (straightening, painting - most or all parts supplied by owner, most or all reassembly done by owner)

the reason i am asking is i'd like to have a better game plan if (hans forbid) it happens again to one of my vws.

the background:  my 1956 beetle was involved in an accident in december.  insurance covered its repair and it went to one of two recommended (by the insurance company) repairs shops in the area.  i offered parts and involvement, acknowledging that my beetle is hard to find parts for and that i probably knew better how to put it back together as i'd had to put it together a couple of times already.

i'm pretty good with assembly, mechanical and electrical but not very skilled with metal straightening and painting, so considered asking them to just repair the damage, paint the parts and let me reassemble the car.  i changed my mind because the shop is in the business of repair and are therefore professionals, they are i-car certified and the repair is guaranteed forever through my insurance.  the situation seemed pretty good... but i think they might be better options if there is ever a "next time."

cheers,
Rachel, Monterey CA			http://home.csumb.edu/~holl1802/pig.html
In a new car, you're just going somewhere;                                
in a Volkswagen you ARE somewhere. -Stormy Henderson's Dad
-- 
