From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>, ron(-at-)busdepot.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, 'OldVolks General' <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>, 
Date: Sat, 19 Apr 2003 10:06:10 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Only in America

  Well, I finally did get the container and contents and all is well now.
I'm home and will be posting pictures soon
  
  NEED HELP, anyone who has imported a high roof, can you P-MAIL with the
vehicle code you used for customs and the duty paid, if any. I am fighting a
467.00 duty on the high roof. Everything else was FREE of duty

  On another note, it is illegal to import or bring a bird intop the state
of Arizona at the moment, so if you are traveling through AZ with your BIRD
watch out

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: craig k [mailto:vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org]
Sent: Thursday, April 17, 2003 9:59 AM
To: ron(-at-)busdepot.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com; 'OldVolks General'; The Bus Depot
Subject: RE: [VB] Only in America


>... You'd think that after three or
>four times of inspecting virtually identical shipments from the same
>importer and finding only Volkswagen parts, they'd move on to someone
>else, wouldn't you?)  ...

well, gosh. it's a pity that the federal government is trying harder 
to PROTECT you. shame on them for not getting complacent, and 
assuming that 'golly, that nice fellah hasn't imported a bomb yet; i 
guess he ain't gonna!'
yes, it is annoying, and YES, agents like to be little hitlers at 
their job (ever try coming back from canda to the US?). you'd feel 
mighty stupid if your container of vw parts had a load of belarussian 
nuke material put in it by the dock workers at hamburg, and it went 
on to hurt someone... but they didn't check it cuz ron's ok in their 
book.
TENS OF THOUSANDS of containers come in every day to the US, and most 
of the inspection people are underpaid and overworked. they all would 
rather err on the side of caution. tho if they gave up lookin for 
mary jane and used the resources to hunt for bombs i'd be a lot 
happier with the system in general. (and no, i don't smoke).

teamsters, i dunno... i used ta be one, and saw the laziness first hand :)



>  Well, importing soil originating from
>certain European countries is illegal due to hoof and mouth disease.
>What does this have to do with a car?  Well, a tiny bit of mud might be
>imbedded in the tread of the tires or splashed onto the undercarraige of
>the car.

ask californians how fun the medfly was/is. ask australians how much 
they love cane toads. we no longer have a calvary, but h&m disease 
can still go pretty hard on livestock in the us. we, in general, 
don't have it here.

i get tired of hearing people bash federal programs meant to PROTECT 
them, even if the results are often inconvenient, expensive or 
nonsensical. maybe you could write your local politician and suggest 
they find a way to straighten out the bugs? maybe you could vote for 
politicians who propose sensible solutions to these problems, instead 
of platitudes?

BUS CONTENT : i have purchased items from both ron and ronnie, and 
TRULY APPRECIATE they effort they make to keep our busses going. 
thanks!

Craig K - legally considered a terrorist under patriot II
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
