Date: Tue, 6 Mar 2007 15:28:09 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Subject: Re: [T2]Help with 73 westy stay running

sorry it has took me this long to get back around...
  we were able to finally get the bus down there that day but it was later on....
  i got a friend to get me a new pump on his way down that day and then i went on down to the garage and another friend lent me a carb and i brought it back home and put it on there ONLY.. no pump or nothing and crunk her up and she runs runs runs... so something went wrong with the carb that was on there evidentually... wierd cause it was running fine before when we drove it home from the car lot...???
   
  she still has a little bump every once in awhile and just cuts off out of nowhere kinda like before but only it seems lately when she is cold... I havent been driving it though. I got it for my wife to drive so she would have a bus ...
   
  we love it.. so far so good ... i got few more things to do before i am settled though drag link, ball joints, clutch cable, brake shoes F&R , brake booster hose, engine rebuild, Temp engine conversion? etc etc etc... those are the things on the list to do first and that havent been done,.,.,. compression is good so hoping for few miles on this before i have to take it out and possibly convert beetle engine to it while i rebuild the pancake in it and then switch them back giving the beetle back its engine...
   
  that aways she stays rolling and doesnt have to be down....
   
  thanks for everyones replies and to the Fmbc members involved that weekend giving us a hand turning wrenches,,and to phil whom drove up that friday and helped me try to get her running again....
   
  chai
   
   


                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
  www.HappyKyndArts.org






























 
---------------------------------
Expecting? Get great news right away with email Auto-Check.
Try the Yahoo! Mail Beta.
