From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Rennie Wible'" <volksdragon(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 13 Nov 2012 08:49:27 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] RE:Hard Shifting continues...

Hi Rennie,

Yes, both clutch cables had a short piece of plastic on them with what I
believe to be  a part number on them. Oddly the new cable had a piece that
said 431 380 17 10, the one I replaced had a piece that said 431 380 0105.
The new one fit, and seems to be working fine. 
As far as the piece of plastic tube I was asking about- this was different.
It was about as long as the bowden tube, and came out of the bowden tube
when I pulled the clutch cable out of the bowden tube. This was the 2nd time
I have pulled the cable out of the tube in the past few weeks. Last time
this piece of plastic was not present. I was thinking that maybe this is was
a sleeve that goes inside the bowden tube to allow the cable to slide, but
it had broken/split due to insufficient lubrication on the cable.
I guess at the end of the day, I'm wondering if I should be replacing my
bowden tube too?
I should have cleaned out the tube like you suggest, I never thought of
that-thanks for the tip. I also reused the clevis pin, lot of lube on it.
I'll revisit this when I go to replace the bushings and seals on the shift
rod linkages...
What rubber booty are you talking about?

Thanks for the tips...

-Kevin Guarnotta
Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 Singlecab
'65 Ez-camper


-----Original Message-----
From: Rennie Wible [mailto:volksdragon(-at-)earthlink.net] 
Sent: Sunday, November 11, 2012 10:46 AM
To: Kevin Guarnotta
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:Hard Shifting continues...

Clutch cables used to come with a short piece of plastic tube on them. They
had an identifier on them. Might have been used to segregate during
production. 

Always check the 'hook' at the front. The hole could be worn, which changes
the adjustment drastically. Always replace the clevis pin with each cable. 

When I replace the cable, I always use the old cable to clean out the tube.
With a drill, you can clean the tube of all the crap that has accumulated
from the road. Replacing the rubber booty helps a lot too. 

Rennie
61 Crew Cab



Sent from Apple's electronic leash

On Nov 10, 2012, at 3:16 PM, "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:

> I just wanted to hopefully close out this thread.but the saga 
> continues a bit.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> -Kevin Guarnotta
