Date: Tue, 11 Dec 2012 22:26:32 -0800 (PST)
From: Aubrey Allen <notorious_a_u_b_(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Post <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: FS: 14in Bus-Rims,2 U.S.Front bumpers,1 U.S.Rear bumper,36hp

Well, I am having some medical problems, so they're forcing me to sell some
Bus parts.  I have among others, mainly cervical disk disease, taking its toll
on my spinal chord.  My insurance has been dropped, and my care is essential
for me to maintain day to day life.  I have four 14 inch Rims for sale. I am
asking $400.00 for these.  Why, you may ask?  Reproduction Bug rims sale for
$95.00 a piece.  They have the wrong offset, if being used for a Bus.  You
have trouble changing the tire if the wheel-wells are not cut out, and the
tires wear with too much camber, forcing the suspension to wear prematurely. 
These rims are no longer reproduced, they're OG German steel, and they've
never been bent.  I took them off my '59 Double cab, and am now offering them
to someone on the list, before I post them on dropgates, and craigslist.  Also
two 15inch rims, we can talk about price.
 
I also have two original U.S. Spec
Front bumpers, I'll let go for $75.00 each that have some light rust, but
never been bent, and have original paint.  An extra set of over-riders will go
for free.  The rear bumper is original, but is missing the driver's-side
over-rider, but I have both tubes.  The rear has two holes centered and
drilled for a bug exhaust mounted to a bus.  I was hoping for $50.00 for this
one.

I have an original 36hp fan housing(non-doghouse) that would come with a
housing plate, chrome stock crank pulley, and generator pulley.  I was hoping
for $50.00 for these too.  I have two sets of clip-style valve covers, hoping
for $25.00 per set.  If anyone happens to be working on a '68 to later Bug, I
also have parts.  Pair of front fenders, rear fender, door parts(door glass,
vent-windows, latches, window regulators, complete driver-door with keyed
handle and matching passenger-door handle, side mirrors), brand new in box
turn signal assemblies, second pair(base and lens) turn assemblies, fender
beading, Cal-Look Window Rubber, Cream 4 piece door-panel set with armrests,
rear seat(needs some work), and lots of little parts.  Let me know what you
think of, and I'll let you know if I have it.

This will be a one time clean
out of all the parts that are not essential to my builds, that I had just in
case I got another Bug, or my stuff broke.  I need the cash now, so its your
gain now, my loss later, when I really need the parts.  After these parts are
gone, I won't have any more to sale, but I wanted them to go to list-members
first.  If you really need a part, and don't have the money yet, I will hold
parts for you to get the funds, being Christmas and all.  I support the chance
to get another VW onto the road.  Thanks for any consideration, Aloha.
Sincerely,
Aubrey James Allen
------------------
1959 VW Double Cab Pick-Up
1968 VW MicroBus Deluxe
1968 VW Standard Beetle
1980 Chevrolet LUV Truck 4WD
1995 Honda Accord VTEC Coupe
