From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 4 Mar 2013 09:58:50 -0500
Subject: looking for advice on a new camper

Well I've had my '65 Ez-Camper for almost 15 years now. It has been great. I
have really given my heart in soul and wallet into it the last few years. I
used the camping aspect for road trips, and it was my daily driver until
about 6 years ago. About 3 years ago I took it off the road, and spent a lot
of time and energy into restoring it. There are still a few minor things to
do.but it runs well, the body and interior are in great shape.everything is
great. 

 

The only down side - my wife wants more room. When I first got the bus I was
not married, did not have a dog or a kid. It was great. Never more than me
and my girlfriend to make room for. In the past, more often than not, I only
needed to make room for me. 

 

Now I've got a dog, a wife and a kid.it gets a bit cramped. My wife and I
want to travel/camp more, and my wife wants a few more comforts. So we are
working on determining what type to get, and what year.etc. Should I get one
that needs a lot of work or not?.Ideally we would like to do some really
long trips - ie many months long, maybe even a yearlong trip.but this would
not be for a few years, when my son gets a bit older. I thought we should
get a bus now, so we can work out any issues on shorter trips. This would
also give us time to customize as we see fit. 

 

Based on what we have now, these are the things I think I would like in the
new one:

 

(these could change as we learn more)

-Pop top with the full bed up top (Does this mean '74 or later?)

-Walk-thru-so we can get to the back without having to crawl over the seats
(are all westy's walk-thrus?)

-failry solid body, I don't want a rust bucket as I have no welding skills

 

Some nicer feature to have, but not necessary

-I've heard/read that syncros are great, I like the idea of one, but
realistically don't know if I would actually ever need it.

-buses with engine conversions - I like the idea of keeping stock, but I've
seen a few buses with different engines ie Subarus, Diesels.etc. I think a
conversion sounds good on paper, but in real life are they a lot harder to
maintain? I like the simplicity of a VW engine. I don't need to drive 80,
but would like to do 65 and not feel like I am straining my engine. 

 

One other thing, my wife often has to travel to CA for work. So one option
would be to go to CA with her to get a bus. We are currently in Boston, with
most buses around here falling prey to the salt. 

 

I know that the newer the bus, the fancier it will probably be, but that
also means it will probably be harder for me to work on it. I still consider
myself(even 15 years in) a very amateur mechanic.

 

What do you guys think, suggestions.I've been trolling thesamba looking at
what is out there, and it can be a bit overwhelming. So suggestions on
specific things to look for would be helpful, or just any suggestions. and
oh yeah I know a lot of stuff related to this has been discussed over the
years on the list. But it has been a while, and the list is kind of quiet
these days.

 

Thanks for listening.I'll try to shut up now, and listen to you guys.

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
