From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2013 09:51:58 -0400
Subject: RE:looking for advice on a new camper

Thanks to all of you for the great advice so far.I was a bit overwhelmed
reading all your suggestions, and instead of answering each one
individually, I'm trying to respond to each individual one with one big
email. Hope it makes sense.

 

Mark

-Weekender, great idea, I had not heard of them before. Looks like basically
a pop-top camper with no cabinets. I think I like the idea of having
cabinets, but will think about their usefulness and if I really need them. 

 

Ben

-What do you mean by smog crap? Is that only on CA buses? Is this a
detriment to the bus engine?

-May you find a bus for yourself again soon.

 

Neal 

-I guess if I want a full upper bed, I'll need to go '74 or later

-I'm actually reminded that I have a cot from a salvage bus a long time ago.
I thought I could put it in my '65 but realized it was only for later buses.
At this point my son is too little to sleep in something like that, but at
some point he probably could. I could always install it in a new camper.

 

Bob

-Good to know that all later campers are walk-thrus.

-Side tent- I've actually had the original side canopy for my '65, but it
has never ever been used. The poles are not complete.something on my to do
list. I'll see about getting/fabricating something for the camper I get

-A camper from out west may be more expensive, but less rust come to my
mind. Most stuff here has had significant rust, and will need money spent on
it one way or another.

 

Clara

-I'm browsing thesamba on a regular basis. What did you think of the propane
fridge and gas cooker built in? I don't think I'd be too into that. We have
a little two burner Coleman, that allows for cooking outside, and in a pinch
we can cook inside. So I think I'd be looking for a camper without the
built-in stove. Does that mean certain years? How was a newer one on the
highway? I.e. was it easier to keep up with traffic?

 

Ray

-I can't go that route. Not yet anyway, need to stick vintage of some sort.

 

Kevin A

-I'm looking for a pop-top and walk thru I think one will give more room,
and one will give the feel of more room, plus allow us to move around while
driving, i.e. to check on our son, or to get food, snacks.anything in the
back. Also easier to camp when the weather outside sucks.

 

Gary

-I don't plan on ever getting rid of my splitty, it is just my wife is too
nervous to drive it-which means I've got to do all the driving-which can be
tiring. If we want to get to the back we are  either climbing over the seat,
or having to get out and go around.

 

Jim

-Vanagon list, I never even thought about that. I'll check that out. I guess
I can find it thru Google? We have discussed going that route, but there is
something about the older ones that just appeals to my aesthetic tastes a
bit more.

-I think I'll get on that list to learn a bit about these water-cooled
vehicles.What are the advantages of a water-cooled engine? I'm serious I
don't know-does it allow the engine to give more power because it can be
cooled more efficiently?

 

Greg U

-Yeah, having to deal with potential breakdowns with an older vehicle may be
an issue. I don't mind it so much, it just may be tough with my wife. I'm
not sure she sees that as part of the adventure so much. Although after
watching that kickstarter movie about buses, I think her attitude has
adjusted a little bit. 

 

Chris D

-5 kids in a splittie - yeah can't do that anymore without getting arrested!
I put some seat belts in the back seat of my '65, so I can put a child seat
or whatever they are called in my bus. The thing is a pain, it is big, and
awkward as hell to hook up, and disconnect. If we use this, then want to
camp-I'm not sure what we'd do. Last summer we could fit a smaller seat up
front for him, but he outgrew that. If we get a newer bus, I'm hoping to
have enough room to leave the car-seat thing hooked up all the time. Is that
possible? 

 

Again thanks for your feedback.I'll be looking through thesamba for a while,
and coming back with more questions.

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
