From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <claralw(-at-)aol.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2013 12:43:08 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] RE:looking for advice on a new camper

Unfortunately with the laws around here, I don't think you could fit 5 'kid
car seats' in a VW. If so, I don't know if you'd have much room for anything
else.  I grew up with 4 siblings, so 5 kids altogether. I remember my
parents went the station wagon route. Again-I don't think that is possible
today. Then again we didn't go camping as kids. ;)

As far as perusing the samba, I am having fun looking! It is addictive.

Why doesn't my wife like driving my split - I guess the standard is a bit
difficult for her.  I think she knows how much time, and effort I put into
this bus-and she gets nervous driving it. I think if we got another one-it
might be something we got together. I.e.-as much as she love my '65, it has
been around a lot longer than her. She has had her share of accidents in the
time that I have known her. Once when using one of my other cars, and a few
times in her cars. As far as how well my bus drives - I think it drives very
well, the front end could be a bit tighter. It doesn't have disc brakes up
front, so stopping is a bit different. She would also prefer more
comfortable seats - I think she like the idea of bucket seats better. I have
the 1/3-2/3 bench seat in my '65. I think they are comfortable, I
reupholstered them about 10 years ago, new foam too. Lastly - I think she'd
prefer a walk-thru. 

We did rent a '79 westy once from Vintage Surfari. I think she was ok
driving that, except when we were getting hit with some serious
crosswinds-that even made me a little tense. Unfortunately during that trip
she was sick at the beginning, I got really sick during it, and the storm of
the century was going up and down the coast following us, and one of the
heater tubes fell off the bus-so no heat. So it was not as relaxing and
enjoyable as we would have liked. I think we also tried to do a bit too much
during the time we had it. We are learning to not try to drive so far each
day.

 

As far as camping-my wife is all for it. She enjoys it, and actually is
really pushing me to go more. Some of our first dates were camping in my
bus. I think she just wants a little more comfort while driving and
sleeping. I think If am going to go the pop-top route, I'd like the full bed
up top, so we can keep our stuff/junk on the lower level, and just pop the
top when we want to sleep. It also looks like it would ventilate better.
Sometimes my bus can get a bit hot in the summer months-especially with me,
my wife, my dog and my son. 

 

Last summer we tried camping with me and my son in the bus, and my wife and
dog in a tent. I think every night they ended up back in the bus with us-due
to my son crying in the middle of the night. Then again he was less than
year old. I guess I like sleeping in a bus-to me it is so cozy. But I guess
we could all just sleep in a tent.

 

That '71 looks nice-I was looking at it last night-but I think I want the
full bed up top. I'm guessing it is not an easy switch to convert a front
hinge top to a rear hinge top?

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
