Date: Tue, 12 Mar 2013 17:35:42 -0400 (EDT)
From: accessys(-at-)smart.net
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] RE:looking for advice on a new camper

On Tue, 12 Mar 2013, Kevin Guarnotta wrote:

> Another question to add - what is the situation with Automatics? I have
> never had an automatic VW. Do these have a clutch? Are they more prone to
> problems, harder to find parts/fix? Do you downshift in them when going up
> hills? I don't know if I'd know how to drive a bus over hills with an auto
> transmission ;)

I've  been pushing a 78 auto bus for about 20yrs now and about 200k so I 
have a pretty good feel for the auto bus.

the automatic is a fit of a rabbit/sciroocco/dasher/audi fox and 100LS 
auto tranny, this is the later 010 auto tranny so parts are mostly 
avaliable.  (don't get an early 003 auto tranny parts are very hard to 
find)

point blank the auto tranny was never meant for the weight of the bus even 
with the longer final drive.  so a good set of guages is a must.  and yes 
one must downshift on long up grades as the auto tranny is only a 3speed 
and because of the longer ratio final drive top speed is less and 
acceleration is less than stellar. and hill speeds are tortise like., gas 
mileage is slightly less.

however I live in a city and mine is a daily driver with a LOT of 
stoppping and starting so the auto is appreciated and it is pretty solid 
if you don't abuse it, your stump pulling days are over but it will go 
pretty much anywhere a manual will go.   I replace the torque converter 
seal every time the engine is out ($7) as routine maintenence.   torque 
converters are not avaliable but can be rebuilt, I get mine done at 
DelMarva converter when needed.  so grab a spare if you can find one even 
if kaput.

driving is slightly different but nothing major, keep the filters clean 
and change the fluid regularly and don't abuse it and you will have a nice 
ride and a happy wife.  that usually makes for a happy trip,  oh never go 
anywhere without  a spare starter, you don't push start an auto tranny.

have fun

Bob
78 auto 446k miles
