From: "John Baird" <jddlab(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 21 Oct 2004 22:48:05 -0400
Subject: Still no get up and go... Did I miss anything?

(John Baird's Bus) Ok here is the scoop as far as I can remember, If anyone
can look it over and see if I have missed something, let me know.

It is a 1977 VW Bus, 2.0 litter no power in engine at all runs ok at idle
but any acceleration makes it break up, run rough and go slow. Nothing over
40mph can ever be achieved. Ran fine driving down Interstate 85 and just
started loosing power. Note this was about 10-15 minutes after a 45 minute
stop and fill up on gas. Had to be towed home.

Spark plugs, wires, points, condenser all changed, Vacuum on dizzy was
tested
Compression check done
1- 120 spark plug was black **
2- 110 spark plug was gray
3- 110 spark plug was gray
4- 110 spark plug was gray

Changed out the Brain in the bus not mine.
Changed out the voltage Regulator with spare

Vacuum check done on plenum tested normal ( 18-20Hg. Or 63 kPa )
Brakes are spongy, maybe master cyl is leaking between chambers? No fluid
leaks in system and vacuum seems good. Tested engine with booster plugged up
and disconnected. - no change in engine performance, but bus was hard to
STOP.

Intake manifold:
Heat Risers taken off on both sides to see if they had any blockage -none
found
Plenum swapped out to see if it had a leak -no Change
Muffler swapped with another to see if it had a blockage - no change

Brake booster eliminated to see if any leak in this system was causing a
problem -no change

All hoses and air / vacuum connections are tight, some hoses replaced -no
change

AFM was borrowed and test to see if it might make a difference -no change

Fuel was tested for water or dirt - none found,
Fuel Filter was changed
Air Filer was changed
Tested fuel injectors for 2ohms - all good, spray is good
Volume test not done
Fuel Pump was tested, but swapped out also with spare, tested good - no
change
Fuel pressure is at 36-38 PSI
Fuel pressure regular was replaced with a new one - no change
Tried to run engine with gas cap off - no change

Throttle was swapped, cleaned and gasket sealed - no change
Swapped out the S hose to see if it was cracked or leaking - no change
Cold start valve swapped out - no change, and swapped back
Aux air regular swapped out - no change, and swapped back
Decel valve not tested or swapped
Ground wires verified
FI wiring harness swapped out with another a buddy loaned me for the day -
no change.

Found a broken exhaust bolt on the 1/2 head, Rob Henley and I drilled it out
and replaced it with new stud. - no change

Blocked off EGR valve on plenum - no change

Changed points, Cap, rotor, COIL - no change
Tried 3 different Distributors, 2 vacuum and 1 009 mechanical, back to
vacuum -no change. Points are new, dwell set to 49 and timing is at 8BTDC

Stall Speed test completed on Transmission in Forward Gear, 2000RPM - Good
Transmission fluid is good; no leak fluid is new. Trans Filter not changed

Double relay not swapped
Discovered 1 & 3 Exhaust Push rod tube seals leaking oil
Discovered oil leak at Oil Cooler

Internal problem?
_________________
John Baird
