Date: Thu, 8 Jul 2004 10:01:41 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Marck Savoie Voyer <voyerm(-at-)videotron.ca>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Distributeur and progressive weber kit

I was running a Weber 32/36 Progressive on my type4 motor with an 009.
The flat spot at the beginning of the RPM cycle was a killer. This was
especially troublesome in the colder months driving me to the
conclusion that the problem wasn't the distributor. I was partially
right. Use a vacuum advance distributor and don't get the 009. If you
don't like the stock distributor, get the SVDA from aircooled.net
(that's what I have).
Now, I had the 009 because a PO replaced the dual carbs with the Weber,
replaced the stock distributor with the 009 and removed other
components as well. Here are a few things you shouldn't do when you
install that carb:
Do not remove the cooling air flaps nor thermostat. You still need them
regardless of what your mechanic or documentation might say. For some
reason, Webers, 009's and missing cooling air systems seem to travel in
packs (at least that's what I hear, I'm pretty new to this, but it
happened with hapy).
Do not disconnect the fuel vent lines and charcoal canister. Unless you
want gas fumes venting into your engine bay (boom), figure out a way to
connect them back into the new air filter. I'm still working on this
one myself, so hapy stays put until I do.
Do not disconect the air preheating system. The documentation and/or
your mechanic might say you don't need them. Untrue. Warm air means
better warm ups in winter, and smoother running when the ambient temp
changes. I found a Sprint aircleaner instead of the chromy did the
trick.
Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (hapy) no longer the bucking bronco he was last winter

--- Marck Savoie Voyer <voyerm(-at-)videotron.ca> wrote:
> I bought a new weber progressive kit and a guy told me that I would 
> need to buy a 009 distributor to installe my carb. Is this true?
> I have a stock distributor on a 1700 cc engine.
> Any thoughts/infos to make the best installation of the progressive 
> weber??!
> 
> Thanks!
> 
> Marck
