Date: Tue, 27 Sep 2011 16:43:02 +0200
From: Sami Dakhlia <sami.dakhlia(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type2.com" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: an update

Hi,
I haven't posted in a long time and I thought i'd update y'all on this
past summer's bus news. As some of you might remember, we moved from
Mississippi to France, but decided to leave the '75 Westy in the US,
specifically in California as a (mobile) pied-`-terre whenever we
visit family on the West Coast.

Our decision to move to France had been rather precipitous and I
simply did not have the leisure to properly prepare the vehicle for
last year's cross-continental odyssey from MS to CA;  as readers may
recall from the 2010 "stranded in Wichita Falls" thread, we broke down
repeatedly.

Anyway, we were back in California for a couple of weeks this summer,
and I spent most of my vacation time working on the bus, in the
comfort of the in-law's 2-car garage. (My kind of vacation!) Pulled
the engine, pulled the fuel tank, there was a lot of rust, gunk and
sediment in there. Thanks to Richard Palmer for sending me a coupon
for a KBS tank repair kit, which really struck me as a quality
product. Cleaned and de-rusted tank, then applied a sealing coat
inside. From yucky to shiny in just a few days. Update on how it's
holding up in a few years...

I also think I solved a few mysteries:

Overheating problem:  Remember the heater/flapper box that fell off in
Wichita Falls? The racket that sounded like a dropped valve seat? The
trouble with running hot, oil temp above 250, sometimes flirting with
270F, forcing me to slow down to 35 mph? A bit of a duh moment,
obviously fan air is used for two purposes: cool the engine and heat
the cabin. Without the flapper box, air escaped through the heat
exchanger and less air was forced to the oil cooler. So new flapper
box, properly attached (!), and the engine has been running cool! We
drove down from the Bay Area to Los Angeles a couple of days ago, no
problems whatsoever. Temp hit 240F after a long hill climb in 3rd gear
in 90 degree weather, but otherwise it stayed between 210 and 230F.

Stalling problem: The Sears dwell meter we bought in New Mexico was
defective and gave a false reading. When I adjusted the points at
the campground, I actually mis-adjusted them. I should have bought a
feeler gauge instead...

Exhaust leak: pulled both headers; one wasn't true. $50 at a machine
shop and it now sits properly. Pleasant surprise: headers can be
pulled without having to remove the rest of the exhaust system.

Hot oil temps really damage valve cover gaskets: mine had shriveled,
were hard and brittle. Clearly, air could sneak into the engine via
valve covers and travel to intake via oil breather, causing lean
running (unmetered air) and further overheating. BTW, does anybody
make silicon valve gaskets? Those should be vastly superior.

That's all, folks. And back to lurk mode...

-Sami
'75 Westy, '79 'vert
type2.com/dakhlia
