Date: Tue, 04 Oct 2011 10:42:33 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: 1978 Westfalia project restarted. A few questions: seats,

Well after about a decade of procrastination - had kids, college, jobs, 
college again, and again, & lack of air compressor, decent MIG welder 
and other assorted tools I restarted my Westfalia project last night. 
WAHOO!

Graduated college years ago, then my wife did, then she graduated again, 
youngest is five, stable job and I bought the air compressor and MIG 
welder I needed. I realised over the weekend that I had no more 
excuses... ;) Ain't life complicated?

A bit of a recap: 1978 Westy, Corvair 2.7L implant, four speed manual 
Corvair transmission. It's the later model 110HP engine and the 3.55 R&P 
gearbox. It's a bolt in conversion I did myself with some re-engineering.

I started modifying the Corvair cooling years ago to fit the Westy and 
not the other way around when I came to realise my no-name Harbor 
Freight wire feed welder was useless. I got frustrated at my inability 
to make a decent weld with that machine and quit the project. Then life 
stepped in to distract me.

Fortunately I got the junky welder for free, and gave that to a friend 
to play with. With only two heat ranges and no gas option he didn't have 
much success either. LOL!

Some time later we bought a proper 220V Lincoln SP-180T with a gas 
bottle. Night and day!!!

I can reinstall the stored VW 2.0L/manual tranny very easily. A day's 
work or so. The only part of the bus that I modified was the clutch 
cable tube and even that could be repaired easily. It all hangs on VW 
mounts and custom brackets which I need to rebuild now that I have a 
decent welder. I customized a NOS Clark's Transvair kit for an early 
Baywindow. The kit called for the bus being cut up but for me that just 
wouldn't do.

The van has been stored inside most of the decade but it needs new paint 
and some minor rust repairs. The acrylic enamel held up well but there 
are scratches here and there. I has two small dents from the bus being 
ignored and stuff piled around/against it. I might go acrylic enamel 
again (basic, cost effective, durable) but the bus will need to be 
sanded down b/c it has three paint jobs on it now. Also some pinhole 
rust came back b/c the prep job I hired out back then didn't do the 
repairs well. I didn't have the right tools. They didn't seal the 
repairs on the backside or used Bondo - I know not which. Most of these 
repairs will involve simply drilling out the bubbles I think, using my 
MIG to refill the holes with steel and then grind smooth with paint 
applied to the inside of the fixes.

Rambling ends here...

Front hubs: I pulled the driver's front brake and hub last night, will 
do the other tomorrow. My five year old son was estatic. He quickly 
brought out his play tools and started "tinkering" with anything he 
could reach on the bus. Literally his life long dream to work on the 
bus... GRIN!

The brakes need to be rebuilt/replaced all the way through, the bearings 
regreased, seals replaced, and this will be fun: balljoints b/c the 
grease boots are cracked and leaking. The driver's rear bearings are 
shot. New axles from 10 years ago, hope the boots are still intact. 
Needs new brake shoes. Remove cobwebs, dust, rust, dirt and grease - 
repaint everything. Fortunately I have been buying bus parts from list 
suppliers all along. I have most everything for these repairs.

Questions:

Balljoint: Take the arms off and press out the balljoints aligning some 
groove for orientation? I have access to a mondo hydraulic press. Use a 
worn socket to press the BJ out? No heat of course I assume? I have to 
find my Bentley manual... I think I know where my Muir book is.

Frontbeam: Arms just slide off the torsion bar leaves after the bolt is 
removed? Are the torsion bar bearings (at the ends) easy to extract? 
Mine have 200K miles on them. Might replace them just because. Easier to 
remove the entire beam? Anybody ever drain and refill their steering 
box? Unnecessary? Mine is still tight. Van must have gotten alot of 
highway miles vs short hard trips through the jungle.

Seats question: I have a Chattanooga guy that will reupholster my seats 
at a price I can afford. I have to decide what kind of front seats I 
want to use. The original seats are beat with 200K of seat time on them. 
A long, long time ago - - - I bought early Vanagon seats that are also 
beat but not nearly as bad. However they leave me sitting up higher and 
looking out of the very top of the windshield and that amkes it very 
hard to see out the side windows. Oh what i wouldn't give to be 5' 4" 
when I drive the Westy. Are later Vanagon seats lower? Different mounts? 
I want the comfort but I want the lower seating position too. Tonight 
I'll reinstall an old seat and see what the driver's position is like 
again. I do have two pair of watercooled Golf/Cabrio seats that I could 
modify to fit the bus. Comfort and potentially a lower seating position 
for the driver.

http://periodfabric.com/tartan/
(I have a lump of the WBT-101 for my seats. Bus is now red and white)

Thanks all, (list semi-lurk mode off)

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L Corvair implanted
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L Type IV - also in suspended animation/neglected/dry 
storage
'97 VW Cabrio - receiving new interior one piece at a time this week
'99 CR-V AWD - 223K miles and original everything including clutch...
Brenderup 1205S

http://www.flickr.com/photos/alittleofeverything/

WHEW! (I talk too much)
