Date: Tue, 11 Oct 2011 11:03:31 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Ahhhrrrggg!

Yes you can make the trip without mayhem. Drive slowly. Maybe 30 mph. 
The bus might have a tendency to swap ends on curvy rough roads b/c that 
tire is busy bouncing rather than providing traction.

I suggest just grinding the head of the bolt off and replacing the bolt 
and the shock outright. You can buy a 4.5" electric grinder from 
Northern Tool and then use it with cutting wheels, grinding wheels or 
sanding discs. With the cutting wheels you can cut bolts off. It's a 
very useful tool. I have a DeWalt which replaced a Ryobi. In my shop it 
gets alot of use.

That's the $30 option.

Perhaps less than you'll pay a mechanic and you get to keep the grinder.

I have a $40 Harbor-Freight 6" disc sander that's now 12 years old. 
Sounds terrible (NOISY!) and wouldn't last a week on a BIG project but I 
use it infrequently enough that it'll last a lifetime for me. It gets 
used just 2-3 times a year. If it ever wears out I'll buy something 
better. Gearbox sounds like it was made with square gears or something 
though they may have lapped together enough now b/c it is quieter. I 
hate to buy stuff twice. I'd prefer to buy a quality tool once but at 
the time $40 fit my meager budget.

Here's the $20 option:

A Northern-Tool air powered cutoff grinder if you already have an decent 
air compressor with a tank or can borrow one. Mine will last a decade 
b/c I don't use it much. The Kobalt (Campbell-Hausfeld in a 
Kobalt/Lowe's store brand wrapper) lasted 18 months in our shop at work 
for $60. It got moderate use but no love (air tool oil) on a regular 
basis. In a truly industrial setting I'd buy a MUCH better grinder so it 
would last and I'd install an automatic oiler. Cutting discs are cheap.

I very nearly had the same result as you with the shocks when I tore my 
front suspension apart last week to replace all the rotten rubber grease 
cups on balljoints and tierod ends. Still working on that teardown. Old 
mechanic friend is stopping by with his tools tonight to show me his 
tricks of the trade...

My front shocks came off leaving the rubber bushings behind. #%$(-at-)&# KYB 
shocks with very few miles on them but a decade of age. Now I have to 
see if I can source replacement shock bushings b/c I don't want to throw 
these shocks away if I can save them.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
'99 CR-V EX AWD
Brenderup 1205S



On 10/08/2011 08:58 AM, Joe wrote:
> Yesterday i got the top off the right rear and leveled the shock to the ground and snapped the shock
> collar off!
