Date: Tue, 11 Oct 2011 11:31:19 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Captive nut broke - the long reply...

On 10/09/2011 12:14 PM, Joe wrote:
> Top shock bolt with captive nut, well the nut weld broke.
It's not that bad. Go buy a new all-steel lock nut at the hardware 
store. $2 or less. These are nuts which are slightly deformed so they 
don't rotate very well and thus don't loosen up. Reassemble the shocks. 
You might need to slide a file behind the top mount to level the place 
where the nut sits if there is any weld material left behind.

Reassemble the shocks with the new nut. Drive over to a muffler shop and 
ask them to spot weld the new nut in place. Shouldn't cost much - maybe $5.

Take it home and wire brush the weld and nut a little to clean it up. 
Dab a little spare paint of any color there to keep the rust away. 
Perhaps remove the top bolt and put a little anti-seize on the threads. 
Reassemble.

Done for another decade or more.

The best tool suggestion for this kind of work came from my Dad.

Buy an air compressor when you have the budget. Then buy an impact gun. 
And some impact sockets.

I never liked Dad's impact gun when I was a kid b/c his impact gun is a 
good one and had more torque than my 12 year old self could handle. And 
it was noisy.

An alternative is an electric impact gun. I have one of those too - 
second hand tool - but it's far too big to use for much besides lugnuts. 
Heavy too.

I've broken all sorts of bolts over the years trying to remove them 
slowly with a wrench. The impact gun jars them out and breaks the rust 
bonds without damaging the hardware.

I priced all sorts of air compressors avoiding the rotary compressors. 
The rotary compressors don't last I'm told. I wanted a traditional 
piston compressor.

The hotdog compressors were $300-$400 and seldom came with a piston 
compressor on top.

I settled on a reman Kobalt/Campbell-Hausfeld compressor from Northern 
Tool - it was branded a Morgan and upright with a 60 gallon tank for 
$350 plus the extended warranty. In retrospect I should have skipped the 
warranty b/c I didn't use it enough immediately due to other things like 
work and my wife's schooling keeping me out of the garage. The warranty 
expired before I put many hours on the compressor to test it.

Anyhow, nice compressor and it's been reliable and big enough that I 
don't even have to start the compressor just to use some air. I can 
rebuild the compressor portion if I ever need to as well.

Grinding, painting, impact guns, cutting, etc.

I have a good selection of cheap air tools from different sources like 
Amazon/Northern Tools/Harbor Freight now. I buy them on sale or for a 
specific need. Ear plugs or ear muffs are a must b/c cheap air tools are 
often NOISIER than their more expensive cousins. Alla ir tools are 
pretty noisy - so are the compressors.

The impact gun was a reman Campbell-Hausfeld for ~$30 with 150 FT/LBS of 
torque. Not a big one but enough for my needs. Beware Amazon reviewers 
claiming a particular tool is "JUNK" b/c it didn't accomplish what they 
needed it to. This impact gun won't take the lugnuts off of a semi-truck 
but it will break the lugnuts loose on a normal sized vehicle like a VW 
or Honda. For some reason people don't research what they are buying and 
then buy something that won't accomplish what they expect it to then 
publicly label it "junk" implying for the rest of us that this tool is 
somehow poor quality. No, it's just small. Its manufacturer published 
it's specs and limits and it meets those modest limits. It's like saying 
a VW van is junk b/c it won't pull a ski-boat over the Rocky Mtns. No, 
it's just not well suited for that purpose... ;)

Then we bought a set of impact sockets from Craftsman/Sears that were on 
sale for ~$40. I don't expect them to wear out in a lifetime. I 
previously owned one 19mm impact socket for taking wheels off with a 
cheater bar. Amazing how over-tightened the average tire store does the 
lugnuts if you don't watch them carefully.

I zip lug nuts off in a blip of the trigger and back on (but NOT 
torqued) after starting the nuts on the threads by hand. I torque the 
nuts with an old no-name clicker style torque wrench that has been 
proven to be reasonably accurate to the scale and of course accurate nut 
to nut so at least they are all the same torque.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
