From: "Timo Schairer" <timo.schairer(-at-)student.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Sep 2004 11:19:32 +0200
Subject: [T2] Strangest error ever

Hi all,

last weekend, after coming home from a 3 week/3000 miles trip to Britanny
(France), I wanted to readjust the timing and points, since the engine was
steadily running worse. I adjusted the valves right before this trip and
changed the oil, filter, ...
So I replaced the points and adjusted the timing and points to
specifications. Engine idled good, but when revving higher, very strange
knock sounds came in unfrequent intervals from everywhere in the
engine-compartment. Immediately shut the engine off, turned it by hand.
Seems like all cylinders have compression (at least it wasn't too easy to
turn it over) and it was not stuck. Turned engine on again. Idled good,
checked timing and points again. WTF, timing was 30 degrees off, points 10
degrees. Did the adjusting and noticed, that the engine did run a lot better
when timing was set to something like 40 degrees before DC, but when revving
higher, i got backfiring to the carbs, like one would expect (intake valve
not fully closed when firing).
Adjusted everything back to normal. Idled good, did a test drive and it was
running like crap. Noticed that the hammering sound came from the engine tin
hitting the body at several spots, cause engine was rocking hard and running
very bad.
Took the dizzy out, cleaned, greased, reinstalled. Checked the coil (a new
one). Checked the sparks. Good sparks when idling, on #1 no spark when
revving higher! Checked the cable to spark plug #1. Seemed good. But while
checking the inner resistance of the spark plug "plug" (don't know how it's
called, it's the plastic thing on the end of the cables that the spark plug
plugs to. look at
http://vwbus.dyndns.org/bulli/michaelk/vw_bus_d/fiche/t209410.gif it's #19)
I noticed that it differed to the others. Inner resistance was the same when
cold, but when it got warmer, resistance got up to infinity. Changed spark
plug "plug", readjusted timing (which was way off!!!), engine runs like a
champ.

Lessons learned: These "plugs" actually can fail. It took me like 2 hours to
find out...
Apparently if it's #1 going bad, you cannot adjust the timing correctly.

Just wanted to share this with you,

Timo

'78 westy
'84 beetle
