From: "John Baird" <jddlab(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>, "buslist" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 30 Jan 2005 23:59:15 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Fuel Injection Pump wiring problem - Fixed

Did this as written, but want to clear something up, and see if this is
correct, looking at the 3/4 side
while roating the engine as it would normally turn, the valve in the front
(E) opens and closes first, then immediately after the (I) opens and closes.
(the valve in the middle-front)
Karl, you mentioned that the Intake would open first, that is not what I am
seeing, do you agree? or do I have my (I)'s and (E)'s mixed up.

This does check out, and all marks line up, so I guess this is not my
problem.  After doing this and confirming TDC, I adjusted the valves
(hydraulic) I know but there was so much slack that compression does not
seem to be building up as the valves are not moving IN/OUT like they should
be.

This now done.

I now have some popping going on, so I think a running engine is not far
off.
All I need to know is will it start, will it run, and what else is wrong, If
I can get it started and idleing for a while, I can make all the need
adjustments and determind if anything else is wrong.

Thanks again, Its late on the east coast... going to get some zzzzzz
John

-----Original Message-----
From: Karl [mailto:aufever(-at-)prodigy.net]
Sent: Sunday, January 30, 2005 9:53 PM
To: John Baird; buslist
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel Injection Pump wiring problem - Fixed

John said:

 Finding #1 watching the #1 intake valve go in and back out to find TDC.
Ok I am fine with that, but when the timing marks don't line up ??

As soon as the #1 intake valve is out all the way, should I be looking at
the timimg lines being lined up with the rotor in the dist, right away...
because I am having to rotate it another 3 inches to get the timing line to
match
the dist line and the rotor.  Is the Dist. out 90 or 180 degrees?

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Forget about watching #1 intake to line up the timing marks.

Remove the 3/4 valve cover. Rotate the engine IN the direction of rotation.
A remote starter button works very well.
Watch the #3 valves. You will see the intake open and close, then
immediately
you will see the exhaust open and close. As long as you see this, you are
going the right
way. Go around again and watch the intake. It will open and then close. Just
as it closes,
STOP. At the instant the intake closes and the exhaust starts to move, look
at your timing mark.
At the point of rocking, this is when the rocker arms actually rock, the
timing mark had better
be on dead zero. If not, your cam timing is off. At the point of #3 rocking,
your #1 cylinder
is at TDC to fire. Look at your dist rotor, it should be pointing at the
index mark on the top
edge of the body.
