From: "Dave Jersey" <arborman(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "BayBusses" <type2(-at-)lenti.type2.com>,
Cc: "Chris Huffy 5195" <cah(-at-)oup-usa.org>
Date: Fri, 5 Oct 2001 18:50:48 -0400
Subject: This week in busland

Hey y'all
I have a 40+ min commute each way to work and since I don't make bug bux the
Antichrist (ever seen "THE GODS MUST BE CRAZY"?) is my usual ride - 50 MPG
is a good incentive.  It had started acting up, running hot, down on power
(for a diesel jetta) and oil consumption had doubled (1qt in 4 days). I
dropped it at the place I bought it (guy said he'd warranty the engine for a
year and I bet he regrets that!) so I had to break out a bus or 2.

Let me back up.  The Tinkertoy's last planned outing was High Country Bus
Fest but Chris and Andrea backed out at the last minute.  The South Carolina
plate expired at the end of July and she hadn't seen any road time since.  I
got turned on the a Transporter plate (yes, they do exist here in NC) so for
the paltry sum of $10.00 the Tinkertoy was on the road again.

I posted last winter about taking her out after a long absence.  I felt that
same way again this week. There's just something about a sweet running
splitty that makes me smile.  The usual maintenence checks, pump up that
left rear tire that loses 2 lbs a week, oil good, no rodents building condos
in the tinware.  Disconnect the ground to the dizzy, crank her over by hand
a couple turns, use the starter to build some oil pressure reconnect the
wire and she started right up.  Ease her outta the barn.  Mmmmm.  We got
lots of smiles and waves and despite the fact that we were in the slow lane,
the folks that waved used all their fingers!  It's like falling in love
again.  Right then I knew the 65 waiting for attention was also going to be
a sweet ride.  It just has that same feeling about it.

Drive the Tinkertoy a couple days.  Then the Award Winning Burrito Express
(AWBE) got her turn.  I had re-installed a progressive Webber and had
concurrent ignition problems so she was in maintenance status for a while.
I fixed the ignition troubles and drove her to Picasso Moon for a campout
with the Full Moon Bus Club http://www.fullmooonbusclub.com and she ran cool
but was way too rich.  boggy and no power when my foot got heavy on the
steeper climbs.  I knew I had to back off on the jetting so last week I
pulled the carb, and brought it to a local Honda motorcycle shop.

You shoulda seen the parts guy's eyes when I plunked it on the counter and
opened it up right there.  He swore he didn't have jets for a Webber.  I
told him to bring the Jets boxes over and sure as anything he had some
that'd fit.  I chose a 155 and a 150, installed them on the spot, paid my
$9.41 and left.  Reinstalled the next day after setting everything to the
factory defaults.

Guess what?  She made power, no bogging, and was actually rather well
mannered.  Except she wouldn't idle until warm and the idle screw got
cranked in to give a nice gentle 1500 rpm idle.  Drove her to work and
after, I pushed her outta the parking spot, opened the lid, and peered in.
The idle mix adjust screw is in the front of the carb (FIF), hidden by a
vacuum line, and there's about 18mm of clearance to the fan shroud.  The
tennis rackets at the ends of my wrists just don't fit in places like that
real well.  I managed to get 2 fingers in there and turned the screw out an
additional turn +-.  Turned the idle down a turn, gave a quick tour to a
co-worker then turned the key.  She fired right up.

Real smooth, pulled the hills well, nice transition when the second barrell
opened.  Oil temp didn't go over 180 even up the longer hills at 70 (65 real
world MPH).  I might get to like this progressive carb if it behaves.  It's
too early to tell mileage but seat of the pants I'd guess low 20's.  I'll
let you know.

The strange thing is driving the 2 buses back to back.  I'm very comfortable
with the characteristics of each.  The Splitty has a harsher ride, but she's
light, just a passenger vehicle.  Much better feedback from the road.  She
tels me what she's feeling and I like that in my vehicles.  The Bay is a
cushy ride, but more work to drive.  Less visibility with the camper
interior, slower off the line but once she's rolling she will dice right
along with the boneheads in the SUVs if I care to.

Thing is, I'm just not in that much of a hurry.  My buses aren't appliances.
Each has a distinctive personality and as such the destination or time of
arrival just aren't important.  The last few days have been wonderful.  I
have been one with my buses and am the better for it.

People sometimes ask me why I drive 30+ year old vehicles.  I just smile.

Don't forget Octoberbus is coming next weekend.
http://pages.preferred.com/~docric/oktoberbus001.htm

Mad Uncle Dave
Member in dubious standing, Full Moon Bus Club
http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com
