Date: Mon, 09 Jun 2003 23:00:54 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)NWOnline.Net>
Subject: Re:Front end compatibility 

Don't know if the following will be helpful or not. I'll just tell you the 
story:

By the time it was all said and done, it cost me about a thousand dollars 
to get a replacement axle beam and all the attached parts in place and 
aligned on my 76 Westy, which lived its life in Ohio, land of the 
salt-truck winters. That included cost of used beam, labor for removal of 
the old beam, shipping of the replacement between Texas and Ohio, and labor 
to adapt the replacement beam to fit my bus, and finally....installation 
and adjustment of the adapted system, with several new parts.

The front axle beam had rusted out and I replaced it with a used axle beam 
from an earlier (71-72?) model bus that had lived in Texas. I used the axle 
beam, with its torsion arms,but nothing else from the earlier bus. I 
swapped on new ball joints and then attached the original parts for 
everything beyond the ball joints. You will probably have to do the reverse 
of what I did, unless you want to keep the bigger calipers of the 1979 axle 
beam (assuming that you got the entire front axle right down to the 
knuckles, hubs, calipers and rotors.

Be sure the replacement beam from the 79 has torsion arms and knuckles that 
are not bent. They can't be straightened without destroying their temper, 
so get straight stuff from the beginning. Don't get something from a bus 
that had a front end collision (that involved the front axle.) Bentley 
suggests that you take the axle apart and measure the torsion arms and 
knuckles to verify that they are not bent. Apparently, this is best done 
using VW special tools.

I think there is a big advantage to your using a good 1979 entire front 
axle system with the bigger calipers and pads. I think it will bolt right 
onto your chassis.

Not certain if the Texas bus that donated my parts was a 71 or a 72, and it 
really made no difference.  It came to me with the original ball joints, 
hubs, stub axles, and calipers, with rotors) still attached....so it was at 
least a 1971, because 1971 was the earliest year for front disks. And they 
were the smaller calipers that used the 10 mm pads, so it was 1971 or 1972, 
since 1973 got the larger calipers with 14 mm pads. Between the early and 
late caliper models, the rotors, steering knuckle and splash shields are 
modified accordingly, to fit.

Incidentally, your 1971 bus has a different and weaker design of the 
steering gear box than the models that began in 1973. Yours is a worm and 
peg,  and  the later models are worm and roller, which is a sturdier 
design. You are stuck with the 1971 steering gear box. I think that your 
steering gear box will attach to the 1979 axle beam through whatever 
linkage is there now on your vehicle.

I had to replace my steering damper, which was worn out.

Please don't think that I know all the answers to fitting a later model 
axle beam to your 1971 bus, because I went the other way, and you will 
encounter different problems than I did, which will require different 
adaptations. And I may not really understand all the different steps 
involved, since I did it about 16 years ago. If they speak up, listen to 
someone who did exactly what you want to do, recently.

Good luck.

Doyt Echelberger
Old geezer with 76 Westy in Ohio,   USA





<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
Date: Mon, 9 Jun 2003 10:01:41 -0700 (PDT)
Anyone know if the steering parts (steering box, tie
rods, ball joints, pittman arm?) from a 79 bus will
work on a 71 bus?
=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com
