From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 9 May 2003 08:55:55 -0700
Subject: Gasoline.. Respect it, or else! 

This just came across a message from another list that I'm on and I thought
I'd pass it on just as a reminder. This is regarding the thread about
replacing a fuel sending unit without removing the engine, by breaching the
firewall behind the passenger/cargo area with a cutting device.. in this case,
an oxy-acetylene cutting torch or a cutting wheel, both HIGHLY DANGEROUS and
unadviseable procedures. The ones that I have seen done used a scutting snip
or even some sort of pliers to cut and tear the metal. Of course, this causes
a lot of distortion which would make it almost impossible to make completely
normal again.. And where we could restore most of the integrity for safety
purposes by welding a solid seam along the tear, that also represents a lot of
labor. To do less is to create a safety hazard. That firewall is there to keep
flames and gasoline liquids and vapors OUT of the passenger compartment in
case of a collision. That could mean valuable time to get family and
passengers, or yourself, to safety. You may NEED the extra time if you are
knocked unconscious.
Personally, I think that this little trick of cutting the firewall is
infinitely cheesy and tacky, and may ruin some of the value of what might
otherwise be a collectable bus. I would be highly upset if I paid a mechanic
to replace the sending unit, later to find out that he had cut the firewall.
It's not good workmanship. Hmmm... Maybe I should just keep my mouth shut and
let all the lazy mechanics get the "send-off, with fireworks" that they duly
deserve.
Here's the other message..

"Doesn't a quart of gasoline equal four sticks of dynamite?  Seriously, every
time I read about someone exploding themselves because they cleaned
paintbrushes in gasoline next to their water heater I absolutely cringe.  We
went to college with a very pretty girl - she was cleaning paintbrushes in her
bathroom with gas and turned on the exhaust fan!  Oh dear, it was awful.
Anyway, I'm still scared of the Hindenberg.  I saw the movie in high school
and it left permanent scars on me emotionally.  kmk"
