From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 09 May 2003 13:10:39 -0400
Subject: The 7th Annual High Country Bus Festival

hey volks:

just some note about the 7th Annual High Country Bus Festival.
this years' dates are  JULY 25,26 and 27th - 2003.

I have update the webpage.
http://www.mindspring.com/~contecmidwest/

We will have live music this year courtesy of BESSIE MAE's DREAM.
http://www.bessiemaesdream.com

Last Year's HCBF made into the May issue of VW Trends.  If you were unable 
to pick up a copy - Rob Henly posted a copy online.  He also has posted a 
veritable plethora of pics from last year. click the link and scroll 
down........then click on the magazine link
http://www.72camper.com/hc02.htm

Rob has also posted a .PDF version of the flyer for this year's 
HCBF...........print some copies out and stick them on buses in your area.   
(thanks again Rob)
http://www.72camper.com/flyers.htm

There will be a techincal clinic on Saturday hosted by Mark Derring of Salem 
Imports - thanks Mark!   The professor is still planning his 
syllabus...........................

Jay and Lynn will be holding a T-Dying Clinic on Saturday.  They will have 
the dye and such - you provide the shirt.  Many have already said they want 
to dye their High Country T-Shirts.  This year's HCBF shirts will be white 
so that those who want to dye them can.  Lynn says you will need to bring 
them your shirt, or whatever you want to dye, to them on Friday night 
because they need to soak overnight in SodaAsh - which insures the vibrant 
colors :-)

Speaking of T-shirts. Don't forget to have your order in by July 4th, 2003.  
There will not be extra shirts available at the festival, so be sure to 
reserve your now.  Shirts are $15.00 and beer koozies are also available.  
Shirts can be picked up at the festival, and we can ship shirts to those 
souls who will be unable to join us in the mountains.  here is a link to the 
order form:   http://www.mindspring.com/~contecmidwest/page3.html

There will be some special kids activities as well.  More details on this 
later.  We do plan to hand out the childrens "door prizes" during the 
activites that afternoon.

As for the Adult Door Prizes......there will a bit of a change this year.  
As HCBF has grown it has gotten time prohibitive to hand out the prizes 
individually as a group.  With over 150 prizes donated last year (THANK YOU) 
it took over an hour and half to get them all out.  So this year, as each 
bus registers they will be issued a ticket.  On Saturaday from noon until 
five they can redeme their ticket for a door prize.  I will use raffle 
tickets and will randomly attach the other stub to the donated prizes to 
insure some "randomness" in who gets what prize.

Hopefully this change will speed up the evening gathering........we will 
still gather to award the prizes for furthest traveled, best campsite, best 
rust job.......ect.  This will also be time to draw the winning tickets in 
the raffles which will raise money for the TYPE 2 List and The Full Moon Bus 
Club.  (there are some tenative plans in the works to make on of these 
fundraisers a Poker Run)


thanks,
let me know if you have any questions, suggestions or demands :-)
Buddah
