Date: Fri, 09 May 2003 14:50:56 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Friday - Oil temps again

I wanted to share an experience I had this past weekend.  Although it did not involve my bus directly, it does relate to how I will feel in the future about high oil temps in my bus.

My "other" vehicle is a '93 Mustang GT.  Recently I put a new engine in it - a 347ci stroker with aluminum heads, 10.3 compression and a mild performance cam.  It is making 335hp at the rear wheels.  I installed an Autometer mechanical oil temp gauge (http://www.autometer.com/hp/2003_catalog/racing/racing_art/3443.html) with a sender mounted in the sump and was appalled at the oil temperatures I saw.  Idling around town it would sit at 220 degrees, and any spirited acceleration would send the temp skyrocketing.  On a 70-degree day I could hold it at 5k rpm in 2nd gear (almost zero load) and watch the temp go up to 260 or beyond.

I should mention that I tested this gauge two ways - I immersed the sender in boiling water and hit it with an IR pyrometer, both of which verified the accuracy of the gauge.

Last month I broke 3,000 miles and switched to Mobil-1 15W50 synthetic.  I also installed a sandwich bypass (standard equipment on Ford Police Packages) and plumbed in an oil cooler with AN/stainless hose.  This oil cooler is in the return tank of the radiator, which IMO is a great idea as the water will help heat the oil up quickly at first, then cool it when it gets too hot.  Oil temps were still somewhat high after hooking up the cooler, but the same spirited acceleration as before saw temps stay under 240.  I was happy.

Fast forward to last Wednesday evening, two days before I was supposed to go for a weekend of roadracing at Hallett MRC (http://www.hallettracing.com/).  The car started overheating slowly and I found that the in-tank oil cooler had sprung a leak, allowing oil to mix with coolant and vice-versa.  It was a horrible mess, and I was forced to remove the sandwich adapter and oil cooler connections.

I went racing anyway.  Many of my friends have similar engines (those with oil temp gauges have seem temps similar to mine) and all have survived in the past.  After a few full-throttle laps the temps were off the scale.  If you look at the link above, you can see that the numbers end at 280 degrees.  My gauge was so far beyond 280 that it was hitting the back side of the peg that supports the needle just below 140 degrees (near the 7:00 position).  I figure that to be near 320 degrees and I am sure I exceeded even that, as when I backed off it would take a little while before the needle would start to drop from the peg.  I tried to back off a little when it pegged the needle but often I was in a situation where I couldn't easily do so.

In the end, the engine seems to have suffered no ill effects.  Oil pressure and vacuum are still normal, no bad noises, car still goes like stink.  From this I can only conclude that peoples fears about high oil temps (mine included) have been way overblown.  Other conclusions: Mobil-1 is very good oil, and bearings most certainly do NOT melt at 300 degrees.  I am still not comfortable with 300+ degree oil temps, but I'm not going to blink an eye at 260 anymore in my bus, assuming I have adequate oil pressure.

Let the flames commence!

-David
