Date: Fri, 09 May 2003 13:44:57 -0700
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Can a bus tow a Geo Metro?

> Date: Fri, 09 May 2003 13:27:01 -0400
> To: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
> From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)NWOnline.Net>
> Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
> Subject: Re: [T2] Can a bus tow a Geo Metro?
>
> I liked your advice to Jesper. Tow as light as possible and as low to the
> ground as you can get, and do it slow. 1000 pounds sounds right, with
> around 110 pounds on the hitch.

I don't know what a Geo weighs but its definitely way lighter that a couple trips I've done. First let me say that what I did was not necessarily smart.

A few years ago I made a 4 hour trip up to Mendicino in a '71 Westy to tow home a Type 3 Ghia with a tow dolly. The trip home was a bit scary for 2 reasons - I had to tow the car backwards because one rear wheel was almost totally locked up and this introduced a lot of play in the tracking even though I had the steering wheel tied up. And, the extra weight of the car on the tow dolly put too much weight on my stock VW hitch so the tongue was a little bouncy.

The second trip I took was to flat tow another T34 from Colorado Springs to San Jose behind my '66 Type 3 Ghia. My Ghia handled the trip very well with one exception. While driving in a freak rain storm in Las Vegas I jackknifed turning a corner.

Getting back to Bus towing, I believe the biggest danger to be the propensity of the towed vehicle to go straight while turning corners causing the rear of the towing vehicle to break away. The Geo to Bus ratio should be sufficiently great to make flat towing the Geo safe in this situation. Since making these trips I have found another hitch (I believe its a DrawTite) that provides even more stability than the stock hitch by running all the way up to hook onto the torsion tubes so I would recommend that hitch if you can find it. But, if you are thinking about using a tow dolly, forget it, flat towing is the way to go.

--
Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org
www.ghiatwins.homestead.com
Oo\ /oO
