Date: Fri, 09 May 2003 15:52:39 -0700
To: "William L Fargo" <wfargo(-at-)willamette.edu>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 2.0L Rebuild saga cont'd

At 11:13 AM 05/09/2003, you wrote:

>is it reasonable to assume that the lower end is in decent shape?

If you have a GEX motor, or most any other high volume rebuilders offering, 
it is not reasonable to assume anything is right. You cannot assume the 
rods were balanced or torqued to spec, you can't assume the oil pump 
clearances are spec. The odds say, something or several things will be 
found out of spec. The only safe way to proceed is to verify everything 
yourself or hire those with the best reputation for quality work with 
direct VW air cooled experience. These will be people with names, 
individuals, not corporation salesmen or phone pool order takers or web 
click order hope it ships soon from where ever and if it doesn't e-mails 
don't work.

GEX motors and others like them are for summer dune buggies. You push the 
hell out of them and when they go boom, you laugh and have another beer and 
slap in another. Those are the cores they are reassembling for you from 
spun bearings and warped cases and cracked heads. That's why most of them 
fail right out of the box or in less than 20,000 miles.

If you feel your budget requires assumptions that all will be fine despite 
compromises, you just add to the risks of failure. If you get it running 
again with smaller effort and dollars than really checking it out, sell it 
before it fails to someone who thinks "rebuilt motor" in your ad is worth 
something large. Inevitably what happens if you do get it running good 
again with assumptions is you keep it until it fails. Now you can't sell it 
for the time/money you spent on the compromise repair and have to 
liquidate, or, spend the time/money necessary to fix everything, the same 
amount you would have spent doing it right the first time and saving all 
the compromise costs.

Which budget is best 5 years from now??? $YYY dollars for compromise and 
failure then $xxxx dollars to fix it right, or, just $xxxx to fix it right 
in the first place. Whether you have that $YYY dollars five years from now 
depends upon not wasting it now. It can never be assumed to be right unless 
and until you spend the $xxxx dollars to make it so. The highest value is 
never found with lesser skill, lesser time and lesser money applied. More 
skill, more time and more money is the only rational road to nipping risks 
of failure in the bud. 
