Date: Fri, 09 May 2003 17:47:36 -0700
To: "Jeremy N.E. Proffitt" <rebeltech(-at-)cox.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Installing Piston Rings & Juggs

At 02:17 PM 05/09/2003, you wrote:

>I am going to try to install one new piston, two sets of rings and two new
>juggs tommarrow (weather permitting.)  I have a piston ring installer and
>compressor.  Any tips or tricks?

I will be amazed if 2 new cylinders and one new and one used piston on one 
side will spec out good as to piston/cylinder clearance or piston balance. 
The odds on the new piston and used one weighting similar is remote and 
frankly unknown unless measured and adjusted for balance. If you are lucky, 
the new one will weigh more and you can match it to the used. If the used 
is heavier, you don't have the other 2 used torn down to measure so you 
could end up with excess imbalance between the new piston out of spec with 
the used piston on the opposite side. That type of harmonics from imbalance 
can force stress risers into cracks into chunks in 20,000 miles rather than 
never through multiple balanced rebuilds.

No, I'm not forecasting if you do this your motor will go ca-chunk with a 
broken crank at 20,000 miles. I'm saying the only way to rule this out is 
to verify balances. The fewer differences between all four pistons and 
cylinders, and both heads, the fewer harmonics of devilish potential left 
around to lunch you in 100,000, instead of 200,000 miles.

>This van is begining to be a very fun experiance, however I have never been
>this deep into an engine before.  I would appriciate any words of wisdom! :)

You must make time to read and re-read each section of the Bentley, ask 
questions when you don't understand, then repeat over and over until you do 
understand. That will take some chunks of time for the engine assembly 
section. If you can't buy the precision tools required to make all the 
measures and through replication verify all measures in sets, keeping 
notes, simple statistics, you must hire this skill. You will need a 
balances to peg the pistons and an arbor and v-block to peg the rods end 
for end and total weight. The list of tools is long and no less the list of 
skills involved to obtain accuracy and precision in measurement by rote, 
proved, verified, factual. You can learn to do this if you make the time to 
study, as you can constantly test your own variations and improve your skills.

If you can't find a machinist will solid VW experience, you should probably 
to it yourself. Ain't got the time or inclination for the studies or money 
for the tools and parts??? Hire the best by reputation and pay their price. 
Just read the Californicated VW mags for the 4 color adds for rebuilt 
motors. Those are the ones to stay away from. In the front you will see 4, 
count em, 4-4 color pages by GEX. Half the money you give them for a $495 
motor goes to advertising. Think about that!!! 
