Date: Sat, 10 May 2003 00:05:12 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)NWOnline.Net>
Subject: Can a bus tow a Geo Metro? 

Before deserting this topic, I want to add that whenever anyone tows 
anything on a public highway, it is irresponsible to do so without regard 
to being safe in any situation that is likely to occur. Otherwise, the 
tower is negligent.

That means, don't drive faster than you can stop in an emergency, and 
triple your assured clear distance when towing. And get off the highway if 
you can't tow safely because of ice, wind, rain, or heavy traffic. Don't 
even go out there if you aren't confident that you can do it safely.

Some situations that frequently happen include wet roads, slippery roads, 
gravel, high winds, and situations requiring emergency stops. Stuff 
happens, and it happens all the time. You can count on it. In fact, you 
better count on it. And you better have your rig set up so that it will 
handle the probable situations.

One way to do that is to follow the generic limits that are recommended by 
the tow vehicle manufacturer, and by the trailer manufacturer, as well as 
the hitch maker. And in general, they say that if you are going to tow a 
trailer that doesn't have its own brakes, keep the weight of that trailer 
to less than half the weight of the tow vehicle. And put at least 10% of 
the loaded trailer weight on your hitch ball. Then, back it down to match 
whatever lower limits the manufacturer has set. You hear these suggestions 
over and over, from auto clubs and in books on trailering and from people 
sitting around campfires all over the world.

You will probably get away with disregarding them, for a while. But sooner 
or later, that emergency will happen and you will slide into somebody, or 
flip, or jackknife, or overheat, or destroy your rig and yourself some 
other way. It is just a matter of adjusting the odds to give you an edge at 
the limits.

Doyt Echelberger
76 Westy in Ohio  USA 
