From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 10 May 2003 09:30:41 -0700
Subject: Scam alert!

I love you VW T2 volks like brothers and sisters, so I thought I should warn
you about something that I just experienced. It's an eBay "thang" (really a
fraud at their expense and ours), and I know a lot of us use that site to dig
for parts, etc. At risk of ticking off the moderator, here goes..

For your information and protection.. FYI (eBay scam alert!)
I just 1/2 hour ago opened my email to find two notices of
suspension from eBay.
It looks like I've been "suspended from all services".. I said "looks like".
I'm really not! I can go right to the eBay site and do anything I want.
Don't you think that eBay would restrict my use if there were a problem?
You see, the email directs me to a link that requests me to "log in" with my
password and give new credit card information (since when did eBay request
that?).. Do you see where this is going?
It's a scam. I know, because I've heard about it on the radio.
The really dead giveaway is that the URL doesn't even go to an eBay
address.. It uses a CGI script but it starts out something like this:
http://12.44.137.178/aw-cgi/eBayISAPI.dll?/ (remainder suppressed)
If you will notice, the URL is a temporary numbered "socket", not
http://ebay.com.
I did a trace under Samspade.org and there is no way to trace it (I am not
an expert on these things).
What's ticking me off is that eBay has nowhere to report this on their site.
I'm sure they must know about this problem, but there is no warning given
and there is no place to report other than buyer/seller fraud, at least not
that I can find. That's OK.. I know how to contact them (and just did)
hostmaster(-at-)ebay.com.
(There is no email contact given on their site that I could find!).
Just be warned. If you get an email like this, at least ignore it. They are
trying to set you up for identity theft fraud or to get your credit card
information.
You could try to notify the FBI, but from what I understand, they get so
many of these and "Nigerian" scams, most of them resolving to overseas
addresses, that there is no way they can pursue them. It's just a bold, new
internet world and we have to learn to be very savvy.
