From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 10 May 2003 14:11:13 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Scam alert!

 For your information and protection.. FYI (eBay scam alert!). I just 1/2
hour ago opened my email to find two notices of suspension from eBay.

> I got the same email and I smelled a rat also. Some info here:
 http://www.whitehatadvisory.com/articles/030212-ebayscam.html

Thanks, Richard! I read this page, and this is more or less exactly what I
got also. Complete with eBay logos!
I never even got past the first page.. I didn't enter my password. All that
one would need to do is to enter their password and maybe then someone could
get into your eBay account and use the information already posted there,
such as a credit card number. However, if someone were to realize their
mistake in time, they could go into their own account and change their
password, locking any intruders out. Presumably, the intruders could do the
same if they beat you to the punch.
I think that eBay is remiss in not warning their users of this fraud. At
least they should give a public notice on their pages somewhere. Of course,
they may think that it scares off business to some extent, and it may... But
what is worse? If widespread fraud is perpetrated against eBay users it will
give a lot of people a very bad taste for eBay, plus it will probably make
it to the papers and radio shows on a much more widespread basis. No company
wants that kind of publicity and it could take a very long time to live it
down. Fear of fraud has been one of the really big hindrances to the growth
of internet commerce in general.
Again, I'm not trying to waste bandwidth here. I think that this concerns
us, because as far as I can tell most of us have bought something from eBay
at one time or another, and if it was recent, apparently someone is going
through the recent or current auctions and harvesting email addresses
somehow.

On that subject, I have found less and less useful used VW parts available
on eBay recently (a lot of used stuff was always hit-or-miss junk anyway!),
and I wonder if others are having the same experience.
