Date: Fri, 07 Jun 2002 02:56:24 -0500
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: T2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Ride report (shocks)

Thanks to everyone who replied with help installing the shocks (first time
for everything).  I found the spacers for one shock in the shipping carton
and the other box has the spacers inside with the shock.

* Steering Damper

Before I replaced the shocks I replaced the O.E. steering damper.  It was
dead: gurgled and hissed on expansion and simply slide back on compression.
I bought a new one a while back because the old one looked like it had
developed a leak and was rusty inside.

Took the bus for a ride around the parking lot and what a difference it
makes going over speed bumps.  I had really got used to the steering wheel
shake but now the steering feels solid at all times.

* Installing Shocks

I was pretty lucky based on some of the replies as all the bolts came off
easily.

My bus has very low mileage from neglect and abuse but unfortunately it's
also too original for it's own good sometimes and what I took off the bus
horrified me: four clapped out O.E. shocks.

Only the right front shock was fair and had any resistance to it but it was
stronger in one direction than the other.  Both the rears gurgled like the
steering damper and were useless.  The left front was the worst, it was just
dead and hissed.

The left from shock seemed to get worse about two weeks ago when I helped a
friend move and filled up the bus with her stuff.

* Ride

I put on 4 KYB gas-a-djusts and rode around.  What a great feeling for only
a $100 (thanks Ron).  Headed for the highway to see about the wind buffeting
and it was marginal until a semi blew past me.  I have the "wrong" tires
also.

I felt that the ride was too harsh and pulled over to check my tire
pressure: way too high from when I was experimenting with an ideal pressure.
Turns out I was just compensating for the lack of proper damping in the
suspension earlier.

Putting the tires at 30/40 like Bentley says set everything right.

A smooth/firm ride in the city, and newfound stability on the highway.  I
had forgotten what a pleasure the busses are to drive.  I hope the shocks
last.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX

