From: ToobWiz(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 7 Jun 2002 13:24:43 EDT
To: tomyoung1(-at-)attbi.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Splitting cases; WHY didn't someone mention this??? :-(

In a message dated 06/07/2002 1:<BR16:<BR35 PM
 Eastern Daylight , tomyoung1(-at-)attbi.com writes:
> It sounds like you did minimal disassembly before trying to part the case so
>  remove the distributor drive shaft if you haven't already.

Thanks, Tom,

the dist shaft is out... fell out while I was trying to find the "extra" case 
bolts :-) As for the cam.. the cases will come apart by about 3" at the nose 
of the crank. That is *just* enough room to cock the camshaft tail to the 
right and down enough to clear that internal stud.

I'll bet that you are correct about that bearing shell locating pin keeping 
the crank from reseating. I'll snake out the remaining shells and give it 
another try. If I can get the cases to rejoin even aprtially, I'll be able to 
start taking out piston pins. Each one out will meke the remaining ones 
easier.

As for partial disassembly, you are correct. I'd pulled the heads and 
cylinders over a year ago; needing only the heads. When I started to salvage 
the case, it never occurred to me that the pistons wouldn't "srop through" 
the case, as in a "normal" (cast iron V8) engine :-)

Thanks for all the help. After 45 years of wrenching, including some in 
motorcycle and sports car racing, I find that VW engines are generally more 
difficult, I might even say *trickier* than most any other types. Since I 
have two sons with T4 engined vehicles, I *must* learn :-)

Cheers/Don

Tom gently admonished:

A couple of thoughts as to your problem:  1)You've managed to pull a bearing
half out of its saddle in the case, a bearing half kept from rotating by a
dowel.  Now the dowel won't line up with the hole in the bearing, preventing
things from going back together properly.  2) This distributor drive gear is
hung up on the camshaft gear.  (I don't understand how you were able to
"twist the camshaft out" of an incompletely parted case.)

It sounds like you did minimal disassembly before trying to part the case so
remove the distributor drive shaft if you haven't already.
