Date: Fri, 07 Jun 2002 15:41:03 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Overheating?


>I have never done that!
>
>Like park at the top of a little hill, pointing the
>right direction, just in case
>Nope, not me! not ever!

Everybody needs to try this sooner or later. Good resource to have 
experience with. Park the bus on a hill - even a slight hill. It can be 
done on flat ground if you can get the bus rolling a little bit with some 
help (some have done it by themselves but maybe they have something to 
prove... <grin!>).

I like to point the bus downhill but I've roll started it in reverse too.

Use reverse when rolling backwards and 1st (or 2nd if you can get up 8 or 9 
MPH) gear for forwards.

Give it a try even if you never think you'll need it.

If your vehicle is an automatic forget it unless it is an early 60's model 
American car which can be roll started with enough speed. They had internal 
hydraulic pumps driven by the driveshafts. Most newer autos don't.

Also if you vehicle is hard to start normally - (takes alot of cranking) - 
forget it. Remember you are trying to roll the engine over by connecting 
the rolling tires to the engine through the clutch and transmission instead 
of through the starter. It's going to take alot of rolling to get it to go.

I recently had to roll start my Honda CR-V by myself on my flat driveway 
b/c I left the lights on - yes - even with the buzzer warning me.... You 
can roll start motorcycles too. Don't bother trying the typical lawn 
tractor or the typical jet ski... <grin>

Tried to roll start a Fiat Ducato in Naples, Italy in '93 when I was a Navy 
MP. Took several of us pushing. We hollered to my co-worker - "okay - try 
to start it!"  - meaning "pop the clutch". She dutifully turned the key and 
tried to crank it up with the starter despite the still dead battery... 
Which is the whole reason we were rolling the van in the first place. We 
did get it started, she had never done it before and was too embarrassed to 
admit it when we asked her to help...


Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


