From: "Bryan Castles" <bc(-at-)version3.net>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 7 Jun 2002 18:00:02 -0500
Subject: Engine trouble - vavles? (kinda long)

Okay, I've asked the list about my engine a bit before...  but the
situation here as changed some, and I'd like to just get my bus going.
So here's the deal with my '70 stock single port:  I had a great deal of
trouble with my engine starting...  it would turn over but would not
start. It did have a lot of difficulty running before I parked it
(missing, dying and massive powerloss).  I have replaced the plugs,
wires, coil, points and condenser, cap, rotor and even put an alternator
on it.  I did a compression test on it and all of the cylinders were
right around the 95 mark.  I also checked to see that I was getting
spark at the plugs.  I was able to do VERY limited tests on the fuel
delivery before I gave up on it for a while.  I put a new fuel pump on
it, and it won't fill the filter (though I am told that is not that
weird considering it hasn't run yet).  I have not been able to really
get any fuel straight down the carb to see if it will start.

I was trying to check the valves when I discovered the following:  I can
put a wrench on the pulley, and I can turn it within 5 degrees either
way of TDC... but I can't get it to the top.  It FEELS like it is
binding up, but it is not super easy the rest of the way around either,
so I'm not sure that it is.  When I rotated the pulley I didn't witness
any weird travel from the valves, so I don't know if I have a problem
there or not.  The starter on the other hand can turn the thing over and
over and over without any abnormal sounds or resistance.

So, here's my question:  I'd like to just "get it running" quick so that
I can move it around (won't be driving it daily)...  so what should I
look at besides pulling the motor apart.  I know that is the best way to
do it, but I'm not sure I'll be able to for quite a while.  The other
part of the question is:  is there anything I can do to really test the
valves?  replace them easily?  

I know I'm asking for an "easy fix" without doing a lot of work...
it's just necessary, since we lost one of the jobs in the house, and the
neighborhood I live in won't permit me to work on the bus in the
driveway/yard (no garage), so it is a necessity that I work this way.
So there you go list, can you try and help me solve my problem with both
hands and one of your feet tied behind you back?  Thanks so much in
advance for any help/advice you can give.


