From: "Jerry & Melissa Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "type2 \(E-mail\)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "vintagebus \(E-mail\)"
Date: Sun, 22 Jun 2003 15:18:11 -0700
Subject: AridZona camp-out 

FAHRVERGNATTIX VW Club of AridZona had their Seven Springs Camp-Out Jan
20-,21,22.  To those of you not familiar with Seven Springs--It is just 41
miles from our home in Phoenix at 32nd Street and Shea--But The weather at
Seven Springs is NOT anything like
Phoenix !! 15 degrees  cooler--and at night I needed a sweatshirt to keep
warm !! Surrounded by trees , shade and cool breezes it was a VWonderfull
delight to enjoy the real AridZona that is not always burning hot!  Most of
the three days was spent walking along the trails and following the  small
springs that are along the way--Lizards running around and circling
hawks--no mosquitoes! the evening we spent together eating lots of food !
Saturday night we watched the movie,
" Herbie Goes to Monte Carlo"  and made frozen banana Daiquiris and
Marguerites!  There were about 15 various VWs and "Other" types of
vehicles--It does not matter what you drove up in--You were welcome-- I
guess to the people that had never been to Seven Springs  they probably
thought because it was so close to Phoenix the weather would be hot? NOT! It
was Vantastic--another trip will be planned this year to Seven Springs. Our
thanks to the VW Host,  Fahrvergnattix VW Club, especcilly Randy and Dennis,
who also sponsored a fun Raffle to cover the cost of the camp-site--The
nroad the Seven Springs is mostly paved--but the gravel part is real
good--To give all of you and idea as the area the camp-ground is in--To buy
a lot to build in the nearby sub-division the cost is $500,000 ! and that is
just for the lot! The country club fee is $100,000. So the camp-out by all
who showed up gave a little reality check to everyone around--Next Seven
Springs run might be Deep Dried Turkey as the main dish !! are you ready
Evan ?? to challenge a cook-off?? Stay tuned for the next Seven Springs Run
!!
