From: "Hart Ponder" <hponder(-at-)ci.palm-desert.ca.us>
To: "Vintagebus \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 6 Aug 2001 10:09:02 -0700
Subject: City on my butt

<<Date: Fri, 03 Aug 2001 20:40:35 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: "Dewayne \"Duck\" Moore" <duckyman(-at-)swbell.net>
Subject: City on my butt!
Message-id: <001401c11c86$761ea600$1b0dbfd0(-at-)bigcomputer>

   Well, it finally happened... the City of Stillwater (Oklahoma) is on
my ass about having my bus sitting in my driveway without an engine
and a tarp over it. As I do not have a double garage and I keep my
Harley in the rest of the garage along with my work shop area,
washer/dryer,>>>

Here are some points that I hope you will find useful:

1. Using a tarp in inadequate. If you use a full cover made for a bus, and
keep the tires inflated when stored, no one can tell if it is a million
dollar show piece or just a bus without a motor.

2. Remember, out of sight, out of mind. Can it go into your garage, screened
from public view? Or, can it go around in the back with a bus cover over?

3. When not working on your bus, remove all parts, tools into the garage,
make sure you leave your bus like it can drive away like any other vehicle,
using a cover made for a bus. Cob webs, flat tires, parts laying around will
cause compliant and violations.

4. Obtain the copy of the city ordinance. Remember the Government is 90%
bluff. Also, the City cannot go into a fenced yard without your permission.
An inspection warrant is needed. In your driveway or on an unimproved lot is
a different matter. The "open fields" doctrine will let a public officer in
these areas for inspections. The exception is a slatted fence, locked, with
signs stating "No Trespassers" or "Trespassers will be violated" (hehe).

5. You get due process. Each City is different, but you can appeal an
inspectors decision to a city council, hearing officer, etc., the ordinance
should spell the process out. Even with a hearing officer/city council's
decision, a court warrant is needed to come onto your property and take your
bus. This gives you a chance for court review on the issue. Nine times out
of ten, If you show up, the Judge will grant you an extension to correct the
matter.

Hope this helps,

Hart
67 21DLX
70 Ghia
73 SB
82 Rabbit








