From: "No Quarter" <silent(-at-)beatricene.com>
To: "listvw" <VintagVW(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu>, "listbus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Wed, 8 Aug 2001 00:31:20 -0500
Subject: Bus prepped and ready to go to RMMW/Bandimere

Started this evening after work with a phone call from Dan Kinsey.  In one
day, he drove his Binz from 20 minutes outside Dayton, OH to Omaha, NE.  He
first called me 70 miles outside of Des Moines (to the East) and a few hours
later I get a call from him saying, "I'm in Council Bluffs, IA."  I couldn't
believe it.  Right now he's at Rob Laffoon's house, making himself at home,
showering, eating, and probably surfing the net.  Only problem so far since
leaving Florida with his 58 Binz Crewcab is the acorn nut fell off of one
the carb airfilter covers, cover fell off, and he drove a ways without
filtering the air.  He got that replaced and all has been well.

Tomorrow morning he will roll into Beatrice and meet up with me at work.
I'll send him on either to the house or to some of my old junkyard haunts.
When I mentioned that to him on the phone, he laughed and said that was his
idea.  :-)

Anyway, I went out to the bus and got Steven Reeds 8 beetle tires strapped
down on the roof rack.  I leaned the ladder against the bus so I could just
get up that high to stack them.  I used a few ratchet straps and some rope.
To tighten the rope up really snug, I used an old rocker shaft I had laying
around and I twised the rope several times with it and left the shaft in the
rope. Those tires are going nowhere - or at least will stay with the rack
wherever it goes.

Moving right along I forgot that Dan had mentioned the yuppification rite of
passage - drink holders.  He thought it would be nice for the crew to have a
place for their drinks so they didn't spill all over.  I ended up cheating
and going to Walmart.  I bought a floor unit, and with a few rubber bands,
had it sitting between the front seats.  We have my main official vintage
bus drink holder up front (I lay claim to this one) and then 2 on the floor.
In the back of the bus I have one centered on the table and screwed down.
This way our back seat drivers and slap shod navigators have a place to put
their drinks while they hold their maps upside down and tell us where to go.

Sometime in amongst all this fuss I got out my pristine porcelain hula girl
with real boobs. When Rob gets back fro Colorado, I'll have him tell you the
URL of where we got them from as I can't remember..  They are cute!!!  It
came from a shop in Las Vegas that sells novelty items. her on a magnet and
put her on the dash.  As I was readying the drink holders to install them in
the bus, I heard a thud in the bus.  Turns out my Brunette Beauty did and
flying leap off of the dash, on the gear shift and landed on the floor.
Thankfully she didn't hurt herself.  I took the poor excuse for double stick
tape and chucked it.  Now my guiding light is held onto the magnet with a
couple of black wire ties so she'll stay put.

After all of this, it was about 10:30.  I jacked up the bus and regreased
the front bearings and adjusted the brakes.  Last time I greased the
bearings, I didn't put a lot of extra in the center of the drum.  Well I
didn't like the looks of these bearings - not dry but not super lubricated
either so as I usually do, I slathered in plenty of grease.  Good thing I
checked these as the driver's side outside bearing probably wouldn't have
lasted.

And that's it.  Came in to write this post now off to bed!

NQ

