From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 13 May 2002 13:14:16 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Almost lost the bus

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII


ok, i'm gonna chime in with my opinions here. get 
mad if you want.

to me, the brakes have got to be the most important 
system on the vehicle. to me it's worth the couple hundred dollars to get german 
(or ATE, or FAG brand, wherever they are made these days) brake components. i 
have heard/seen too many problems with varga, india, or us made brake parts. and 
rigging up some dual circuit baloney doesn't sit too well in my mind either. 
it's cheap insurance and piece of mind to spend the extra bucks up front on 
quality parts. i don't wanna die in my bus, nor do i want to smash into anyone 
else. do you really feel like a $20 master cylinder will be reliable? i don't. 
i'd much rather pay the $100+, or whatever they are these days, for a quality 
unit that comes complete, rather than needing to add a switch and a reservoir 
before even installing it.

just the other day i was mindlessly looking over at 
a resto shop, looking at a barndoor they have there, and when i looked back at 
the road i was staring at the back of a new BMW suv thing. i stomped on my 
brakes and came to a stop in time. i was not ever worried that the brakes, 
single circuit, would fail. if they would have, both my bus and the BMW would be 
at the body shop. another thing to do is make sure the drums are within spec as 
far as the internal diameter. NOT to the wear limit, but to the max TURNING 
diameter, and they are two different specs. TURNING diameter is the diameter 
that the drums can safely be turned to before they are considered too worn to 
put back on the car and drive and still be within the wear limit. at the max 
TURNING diameter, there is still meat for the shoes to wear off before they 
reach the MAX diameter. MAX diameter is when the drums are too thin to 
do anything to, and legally i don't think a shop can re-install drums if they 
are at or past max diameter.

as sad or as expensive as it may be, you've gotta 
replace drums from time to time. if you're driving on worn out drums, then it's 
your own life in your hands. good used drums are not impossible to find, 
regardless of the year. and some years are even available new (quality issues on 
some though), so there is no excuse for running bad drums.

you also have to keep the shoes adjusted. they 
don't self adjust. let them get out of adjustment with a combination of bad 
drums, and you're asking for a cylinder to pop out and possible tragedy. still, 
brake adjustments don't take very long and will also tell you the condition of 
the shoes and the drum at the same time. if your adjusters are sticking way 
out of the adjusting stars, then that should be a good indicator of a bigger 
problem that needs to be rectified sooner than later.

you also need to flush the fluid every couple 
years. looked at your fluid lately? is it black? change it. open each bleeder, 
one at a time, pump till there is air, close and move on until the entire system 
is flushed, maybe even run some new fluid through to flush even more, then 
refill and bleed with new fluid, hopefully of the same manufacture of the 
previous fluid. this is a very often overlooked brake system maintenance 
item.

here's the part where you can get mad if you want. 
all this crying about single circuits sucking and how everyone should convert to 
dual circuits is a big crock. i have ever only had 1 vw have a wheel cylinder 
blow out, and it was on my first bug. guess what--it was a dual circuit, and it 
blew because of a worn drum and mis-adjusted shoes. (i was young and didn't know 
any better at the time) i have not ever once had a single circuit bus brake 
problem like a blown cylinder. maybe that's because i replace all brake hoses, 
cylinders, and master when i get a bus back on the road. i do not rely on a 
previous owner's work. (well, my 61 flipseat i did, but i told myself at the 
first sign of any kind of trouble i'd replace everything with new german 
parts--but i never had problems, so...) i also make sure the drums are turned to 
less than or to max turning diameter, and don't use any drums that are past it. 
if they are past, i junk them, no questions, no regrets, they're 
gone.

brake systems need maintenance just like any other 
system on the car. vw's are a high maintenance vehicle. you can't just drive 
them and think things magically fix themselves. you also must pay attention to 
the warning signals. low brake pedal, squishy brake pedal, fluctuating brake 
pedal problem? maybe it's time to check some things out, rather 
than chancing a crash  and ruining a pair of pants.


----- Original Message ----- 


Yeh hand brake as a redundancy is not a comforting thought. 
Let me know how the dual cylinder quest goes. If no cutting is required then I 
am very interested. I have heard rumblings on using a rabbit or later type 2 
dual master cylinder as cheap alternative.

 

  went inside to check my pants. I wonder what happened? My brakes have 
never

  been the best, but never nothing like this.

 

After you get yourself dried off, go look at all the wheels and

master cylinder.  You should find a puddle 
somewhere.  (besides the front

seat)    I need to check out doing the dual circuit 
conversion

and you are really convincing me.  Seems like you aren't the 
first to have

this happen.  I figure I could run the cheap Varga wheel 
cylinders if I

had a dual circuit system.


------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

