From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 14 May 2002 10:14:01 EDT
To: joelbidinger(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] oil pressure concern

HM, strange.  cold I'd expect the pressure to be higher.   Maybe it's just 
colder here. but I get a reading up at the top of the guage (80ish) at first, 
then it dropps down pretty quick to idle at 40 or 50 cold , and then when I 
drive it goes from about 60 driving to warm up to about 40 driving, 20 at 
idle.  ANyway,  the oil does warm up and get thinner, and if you get very 
little change I'd suspect your sender, or possibly guage.

how old is your sender?   there have a date stamped on them.  I was worried 
when my 65 westy had really low oil pressure when the light started coming on 
at idle, and it turned out the sender was bad.  the old one was dated 4/77 or 
something.   I actually paid a shop what had a screw in oil pressure guage 
that screwed into the sender site and that had a dial on it.  just an idea.   
kind of like calibration.   Other wise, I wouldn't freak.  Your bus has been 
running good, so you'll get an idea of what it usually does, and if it starts 
doing something wierd then wory about it.

The guages in my 61 are FUBAR, so I ignore what there do, eventually I'll get 
some new guages and they'll tell me something useful.  

In a message dated 5/12/02 11:18:59 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
joelbidinger(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< 
 I put in oil pressure and oil temperature gauges a week or two ago. The 
 temperature is just fine, but the oil pressure gauge needle spends a lot of 
 time at 90+psi beyond the scale on the gauge. Idle pressure is what I expect 
 it to be, ~40psi cold and ~20-30psi hot, but cruising 3000+rpms puts the 
 needle off the scale. I drove almost 300 miles on thursday, the engine was 
 definitely warmed up, and the oil pressure stays high. I thought the oil 
 pressure would drop as the oil got hotter and thinner. I have never had an 
 oil pressure gauge before, I don't know what the readings ought to be, but 
 it doesn't seem right that a gauge should be reading off the scale like 
 that. If it were the temperature gauge I would be alarmed. Instead I am just 
 confused. It has been a while since something broke of its own accord, maybe 
 I am just getting itchy to wrench on something...
 Other notes: 30-weight oil, ambient temperatures in the 70-80's. Oil 
 pressure sender is one of those VDO dual sender units that replaces the 
 stock low oil pressure sender. >>
