From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: jk <jkyte(-at-)unm.edu>, George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>, Taylor Nelson
Date: Tue, 14 May 2002 15:55:52 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Non-Stock Muffler and Engine Temp

 If you run a 74X88 the reason for the end castings is because you have
widened the engine approx. .380 inches and the single port manifold will not
reach (to narrow). In the ones I have built I have used .190 and up to ..200
inch cylinder shims to keep the compression ratio betwee 6.8 to 1 up to 7.0
to 1.  I have designed and started and stopped (due to time) developing a
stock style muffler that will work on bigger engines. In the old 356 days we
made a few of these mufflers (Carrera style) to use on the big bore engines.
I am applying the same principles to the bus muffler. A little loader but
should flow beautiful.

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: jk [mailto:jkyte(-at-)unm.edu]
Sent: Tuesday, May 14, 2002 3:17 PM
To: George Lyle
Cc: OldVolks General; Taylor Nelson; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] Non-Stock Muffler and Engine Temp


On Tue, 14 May 2002, George Lyle wrote:

> For a single port, it would seem like a relatively easy job to fabricate a
> SP manifold to accommodate the 34 carburator.  I hate to see a single port
> motor stuck with a dual-port manifold and the accompanying vacuum leaks at
> the boots.

The reason for the dual port manifold is to get some better flow.  On a
stock or probably even 69X88 the stock SP manifold is probably adequate
but I'm thinking 74X88 would probably be pushing it.  The end pieces are
bigger than the stock SP so would flow better in theory.  The SP heads can
be opened up some and they have the same valve sizes as the dual port so
for a bigger engine this should be a good set-up in theory.
I've rarely had intake leaks on dual port intakes using the silicone one
piece boots and not overtightening.  Like I said Rarely.  Not never.:)
I think leaks were due to overtightening.  Good German clamps help too.
There is a VW mechanic running the DP/SP combination on a 1776 in a 71 bus
going through Tijeras canyon every day and he swears by it.  He also has
some oldtime single port adapters that work.  ANyway I'd like to try it if
anybody has some good adapters I'd buy some.

 John K.
