Date: Fri, 27 Dec 1996 14:39:39 -0500
From: Claralw@aol.com
Subject: Re: Changing windshields on '67 split

matthew writ:

I have new windows and fresh rubber for the windshields and I would like
to replace the cracked ones that are in there now.

I have read brief descriptions of how to change the glass in parts
cataloques, but I was wondering if anyone on the list has actually
changed these windows on their own.  Is it as easy as it sounds?  What
tools do I need (other than a wood wedge and a hammer)?
- - - -
use neither of those items.   Especially a hammer.  oi vey.

Cut out the old seals with a razor blade or sharp knife.  I prefer a knife
with a curved blade.   Cut parrallel to the glass, right next to it, from the
outside.  Pull the outer piece of rubber off, as you will be cutting the
rubber seal in two.   Have a friend gently push the glass out from inside,
 while you catch it.  It it doesn't come out easily, look for where it
cathces on the rubber.  Laminated glass BREAKS,  so try to avoid dropping, or
smashing.

After you have the glass and old rubber off, look at the window ledges.  Are
they nice and smooth with good paint?  HOORAY!  go to installation.  Usually
they aren't and you need to decide what to do.   How bad is the rust?   Just
paint bubbles?   Pits?   Can you poke a screwdriver through?     On my 65 I
wire wheeled off the window ledge and corners, got the rust out, used the
rust fix primer, used bondo to smooth out the pits, to give a smooth sealing
surface, primered with high zinc primer, and then painted.    It takes a
while to get it right and dry.    I took my time on it.

The first window job I did was my old 59, which needed new ledges welded in.
   It was pretty much gone.

This is probably not an afternnoon job, unless you have a dry, rust free,
bus.   If you are painting it, I'd wait till then,  Unless the cracked side
is sagging, in which case you really need to change it.

Installation.  :  Clean off window well, wire wool is good, but not green
kitchen scrubbies.  If you like, this is a good time to polish the glass.
  Put the seal on the dry glass, with the seam on top.   Get your string and
wrap it in the bit of the seal that the bus will go in, with the ends on top.
  I use roofing tar on the bottom ledge, a nice smear, it reseals every
summer.  I use motor oil or WD 40 as a lube around the seal.   Push the
window gently into place, tucking the string inside thebus.  Push gently but
firmly to center the glass.  Have a ffriend push from the outside as you pull
the string to get the lip of the seal over the metal of the bus. Pull the
string pararllel to the glass, away from the center of the window.  I hope
this makes sense.   THen afeter all the lip is over, anice push from the
outside should set the glass and seal right.   If part of the seal goes out,
try a plastic tool to get it back.   WD 40 dissolves roofing tar.   Waxing
the window reduces glare and helps the wipers work better.

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------
       Send SIGNOFF TYPE2 commands to LISTSERV@HOME.EASE.LSOFT.COM
