Date: Tue, 10 Dec 1996 16:41:00 EST
From: Kronkaitis, John @MCLN <KRONKAJ@FEDERAL.UNISYS.COM>
Subject: Oil cooler replacement (long)

Thanks to everyone s help, I got my oil leak fixed this past weekend.

Remember me? I was the guy who asked if an oil cooler could be replaced
without having to take the engine out.  You guys got me mentally prepared
for the job with your suggestions. Now I'll fill you in on how I did it in
the form of  how to instructions..

Its a pretty straight forward job.  First off you'll need some tools...
8mm,10mm, 13mm wrenches, long needle nose pliers, screw drivers, 1/2 inch
distributor wrench, rags, and a pencil broken in half.  You may need others
tools depending on your setup.  I have a 1972, 1600DP with a doghouse fan.
 Now begin the tear down process. Please note that I will be making up names
for parts so bear with me.

1. Lift rear seat.
2. Disconnect battery cables.   Stop here if you don t know how to remove
battery cables. If you cannot remove these cables you may need to hire
someone to remove the oil cooler for you.  (I being nice here, what I really
want to say is that you probably do not have the mental capacity to do the
job).  No flames please.
3. Remove engine lid brackets.  There are two brackets with three bolts on
each side. Remove lid and set it aside. (10mm wrench)
4. Remove all fresh air hoses that attach to fan shroud and cooling tins.
 Mine has three. (Screw driver,maybe)
5. Remove and plug with pencil  fuel lines that attach to fuel pump.
6. Clean up spilt fuel. (Rag)
7. Disconnect all wires from coil. (Remember to mark there location)
8. Loosen nut that holds accelerator cable to carburetor linkage and remove
cable from linkage.  Inspect cable end for fraying.  (8 mm wrench)
9. Remove carburetor, two nuts hold it to the preheater stand. Take care not
to tilt the carb or fuel will spill out. (13mm wrench)
10. Remove any wires that may be attached to fan shroud. Back-up light wire
and spark plug wires # 1 and # 2 come to mind.  (pliers, maybe)
11. Loosen alternator/generator strap and slip it forward.  (13mm wrench and
pliers)
12. Order pizza and aspirin.  Remove left side 10mm bolt from fan shroud.
 You ll probably need to look pretty hard for it.  The manifold tube hides
it pretty well.  This bolt is a b*tch to get out.  (10mm wrench)
13. Put down 10mm wrench and answer door , get pizza from delivery person.
Put pizza in oven to keep it warm.  Resume bolt extraction exercise.
14. Throw out left side 10mm bolt.  Think about it, do you think  that
you ll ever get that sucker back in?
15. Remove right side 10mm from fan shroud.  This is the easy one!  (10mm
wrench)
16. Now you re going to work on the front side of the fan shroud. (Front is
Front)  Remove left half of oil cooler cover. (10 mm wrench)
17. Remove bolt that holds chute to shroud. This is piece that goes thru the
front engine tin.  (10mm wrench)
18. By removing the chute you will have exposed the vent flap linkage
assembly.  There is a pin that holds a metal bar that runs in front of the
oil cooler and over to the right side.  Remove the clip that keeps the bar
attached to the pin.  (pliers)
19. Locate and remove the 10 mm bolt that secures the oil cooler cover to
the oil cooler. (10mm wrench)
20. Now you get to go under the car.  Remove the tin on the right side that
covers the thermostat.  Scribe the location of the bracket that holds the
thermostat.  Now remove the bolt that hold the thermostat to the bracket and
remove the bolt that holds the bracket to the engine case.  Unscrew the
thermostat from the wire that its attached to.  (Screw driver, 13mm wrench)
21. Now grab the left side of the shroud with your left hand and with your
right hand grab the alt/gen. and lift the shroud up and slightly to the
right.  You might have to jiggle it some.  Be careful not to damage the oil
cooler tower fins!
22. Now you have exposed the oil cooler and the flange that holds it to the
engine case.  The front of the oil cooler has three nuts that hold it to the
flange.  Don t waste you time removing the nuts at this time.  There isn t
enough clearance to slid the oil cooler off of the flange.  Rather, you
should unbolt the flange from the engine case first.  There are three nuts
that hold the flange.  One is one the right side.  The other two are on the
left side underneath the flange.  Use your 1/2 inch distributor wrench to
take off those left side nuts.  Incidentally,  a 13mm distributor wrench
will work also.  I just don t have one.  (1/2 inch distributor wrench)
23. OK now you have the oil cooler in your hands the front side has three
10mm nuts that hold the cooler to the flange. Remove the nuts and slide the
cooler off of the studs.

You have now successfully stripped the engine off its oil cooler.
 Congratulations!

When you reassemble remember to torque the nuts that hold the oil cooler to
the flange and the flange to engine case to 5lbs.  Oh yea, I forgot go
inside and turn off oven and remove the now hardened pizza.

I may have forgotten some steps but this is how I remember getting to the
oil cooler.

John
74 Vert
Oil cooler replacement (long)
