Date: Thu, 15 May 1997 13:41:03 -0700
From: Robert K. Kuhn <kealoha@ISISPH.COM>
Subject: The Oil Temp Saga in Baby (revisted)

Hey guy's ...

        Now that summer is close by, I thought I'd wait until we had a decent
"heat" wave here in San Diego.  The weather man said that it will be in the
low to mid 90's in the inland areas (ie: where I reside, Poway Ca).  It's
in the mid 80's here in Carlsbad (on the coast, just south of Oceanside).
        Anyhoot, for those that remembered, my oil temp gauge is fed it's data via
a copper "T" fitting at the stock oil pressure light.  Many people (on and
off the list) have said that this was not the proper place to get said
reading and that I should not believe what my gauge is telling me.  So,
with the aid of a Fluke electronic thermometer (resembles a hand held DVM)
which I borrowed from our facilities department, I started to take temp
readings and found that my gauge was about 10-15 degrees off.  Course, I
took these initial readings in the fall/winter months here in San Diego.
        Today, I had to drive into Escondido California (not far from work) which
is inland and it was pretty *warm* out.  I brought the small thermometer
from home and used that to see how hot it was.  In downtown Escondido, it
was around 89 degreess.  To make matters interesting, I got caught in some
stop and go type traffic.  I found a place to safely park Baby (my '61 Bug)
and started to take my readings:

        My SunPro oil gague reported that the oil temp was 175F

        The Fluke said:

        At the "T" fitting: 180F
        At the base of the dip stick tube: 183F
        On the dipstick: 185F
        On the block under the 009: 190F

        ... with the engine off:

        The oil on the dipstick: 186F
        Sticking the probe down the tube: 188F

        Engine Background: The engine is a 4+ year old Gex 1776 with 040 heads,
009 distributor with a Perlux Ignitor (been in the 009  even before I got
the Gex motor), dual Kadron carbs (stock jetting), BugPack Turbo Muff and
oil breather box (both valve covers are vented as well as the spin on oil
filler cap), the heads (040) were recently rebuilt with new TRW valves and
springs.  The oil that I'm using (and have been using since I got Baby) is
single weight 30 by Pennzoil.  I don't have any heater boxes either.

        The Gauge: SunPro electronic oil temp gauge with sender (about 3 years
old).  Sending unit attaches to via a copper "T" fitting at the stock oil
pressure fitting.  This "T" fitting was supplied with said gauge and
sender.  The sender and gauge has been calibrated via the boiling water
trick.  :c)

        I drove about 20 miles, 10 miles on the freeway and about another 10 miles
in Escondido most of which was stop and go type traffic.
        Seeing as it's suppose to be a pretty warm week, I might drive Baby some
more and keep taking measurements and such.  But, as it did the last time I
did this test, my gauge is about 10 (give or take) degrees off.
        This saturday, I was thinking about visiting a friend out in Riverside, so
perhaps I'll take Baby out for that trip and see what kind of oil temp I get.

Robert K. Kuhn (kealoha@isisph.com)
Isis Pharmaceuticals -- Systems Admin/Web & Notes Slave

http://www.isip.com/users/kealoha

" They make 10,000 cars ... They make them exactly the same way
 and one or two of them turn out to be something special.
 Nobody know's why ..."

                                                -- Jim Douglas "The Love Bug"

The Oil Temp Saga in Baby (revisted)

