Date: Mon, 16 Dec 1996 22:06:07 -0500
From: David Raistrick <xi8940@freenet.tlh.fl.us>
To: TYPE2@HOME.EASE.LSOFT.COM
Subject: Random acts of stupidity. (best name i could think of.)

First, the ObVW content...

Woke up this morning, (btw, this may take me a while to get done, so,
"this" morning refers to monday, 12/16/96) first day of the new job.  6
bloody early in the morning. Eat, get dressed, etceetc, get my tools and
papers togethor. Head down to the bus. Stare at it a bit, thinking of my
forlorn icescrapers that went the way of my 74 and my 68..gone, to the
big boneyard in the sky. Daddy Porsche is probably using them to keep his
windows icefree.

Anyway, get in the bus and crank her up...vroom! Crawl in the back to
dig through the assorted tools to find something to help. Big wide, cheap
and new. A puddy knife. I appoligize profusly to itchigo, but i have to
get to work...and that involves seeing.

Get out, and before i can start scraping, i notice something amiss. I stare.
Some blasphemer tore my anntena off! For combustions sake! WHY?!
Its one of these nice retractable (manually..) jobies, seemingly
installed by the PO. It was retracted the day before. Some ..person..
pulled it up, then broke the poor thing off! What a way to start a monday.

(rant mode initialized)

Now..you see where i begin..

"The world is full of stupid people..." --the Refreshments

Why? What in anyones name can be the purpose of not stealing, but instead
BREAKING someones anntena? Or anything else, for that matter?

Does it cause them this sincere JOY, a feeling of machoness, maybe it
just gets their dick hard? WHY?

This maliscious act cannot be directed at me. I dont KNOW anyone here.
There for, no one knows me. And cannot, in theory, have anyreason to do
this. Its not revenge. I havnet tread on anyone's turf. Hell, all i've
been doing is sitting here, wondeering why i was just sitting here!!

Is it because i drive a VW? Maybe its because i drive a bus. And maybe
they are anti-hippy. the bus isnt a hippy bus. No bright colors, no peace
symbols. Maybe its the "Fear This" Sticker, and the big chrome pipes
sticking out her rear? Could be the guy that I BEAT one day..just off the
line, of course...better start...

I would rather it be something like this. Directed at me.

Instead, the chances are it is just anothe sign of what this world is
coming to. I guess. How the hell would i know, i'm only 19, right? what
do kids know? but then, what the hell do the old know about the young
anyway..oops..sorry..different tangent.

Theft? Fine. Sure. It pisses me off, but, I can somewhat undderstand it.
There is, somewhere, a gain, or they think. If they get away with it,
they can sell off what ever they get, and use the money for...well, what
ever. Not all of them use it on rugs, or cars, or women. Some have a
legitament need for the money. But, those are the ones who ususally dont
get away with it. They do it out of desperation. As a last ditch effort.

Because they see no other way out.

And there are crimes of hate, or passion. Ones steals one others girl,
and dies for it. or maybe is just lucky, and beaten. Or his house is
buned, his car mutilated, or, maybe the other had a sense of humor.
Albeit twisted. The one ends up covered in a floresent paint, similar to
the dyes used by banks.

But, damn. What is the point, the gain, the reasonsing, behind tearing
off a damn anntena? Obviosly it wasnt done by one who minds working. It
required a bit of effort to pull it up, then bend, bend, bend, twist, and
finially snap it off.

Mybe it made the person look "cool."

Every day in this town, this big city, i look around. No, dont even have
to look. I heaer sirens, no less than one set every half hour. And
usually they sound like more than regular traffic violations...
Is that what happens when a city gets large? Why? It doesnt have to,
does it?

Just because there are more people, why do they have to hate each other?
Or do things that are just so stupid! Pointless.

it doesnt prove to the world what a man (or woman) theyare. it doesnt
scream "Hey, I'm cool! i'm a stud! come (Forced Unlawful Carnel Knowledge)
me!"
It screams, "I'm a moron who cannot respect others property. Come, flay me."

Now, would this perosn think i'm cool if i went and tore off HIS anntena?
Shiit. He'd probably nut up so hardcore that if he ever found me i'd be dead.

But, that doesnt prevent him (again, or her..) from doing it to other people.

(rant mode postponed)

sorry for all that...if you read this far...the list admins PROBABLY dont
want this to continue much farther...unless we kep the ObVW info good..:)

thanks for allocating me this wastd bandwidth..

........david


--
Mo.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.o.oM
                           Keeper Of The Light:
                        Pushing Back The Darkness at
          http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb/west/darkness.html

ex'74 Super             http://www.armory.com/~y21cvb
ex '68 Beetle
    '75 Retired Westy-Canadian Model, Cody
     '69 Westy-Itchigo                               xi8940@freenet.tlh.fl.us
