Date: Mon, 29 Jul 1996 13:26:22 -0400
From:BusBoys@AOL.COM
Subject: Valve Adjustment - Procedure

Proper valve adjustment is the key to long engine life (as well as frequent
oil changes) and should be done at least every 6000 miles (like the Bentley
says).  I'm a little more paranoid after 35 years of adjusting these boogers
and do it every time I change the oil, which is every 3000 miles.  The
Bentley is correct about turning the engine counter-clockwise, but the 90
degree figure shown in the book is very much incorrect. <br>
[Editor's note: I've had it pointed out to me that Bentley is refering to 
90 degrees of the ROTOR, not the pulley...any questions or confusion 
about this, i'll be glad to set you straight......david]<br>Muir is more 
correct
in saying 180 degrees and it can be done clockwise if you can keep track of
which cylinder you're adjusting.

PROCEDURE:  Applies to 1600, 1700, 1800 and 2000 Engines with Mechanical
Lifters.  Engine must be "Stone Cold" to do this.  Do it on as level a
surface as possible, otherwise you'll have oil running out onto the ground
and the heater box(es).

1.  Remove the Valve Covers and the Distributor Cap, noting the position of
Cylinder #1 on where the cap sits on the distributor.
2.  Hand turn the engine until the crank is at Top Dead Center (TDC) on
Cylinder #1 - double check by looking at the position of your Ignition Rotor
to see if it is pointing at the position of where your #1 Spark Plug wire
would generally be if the cap were installed.
3.  Adjust both the Intake & Exhaust Valve of Cylinder #1 at .006".
4.  Hand turn the engine crank 180 degrees COUNTER-CLOCKWISE and double check
by looking at the position of your Ignition Rotor to see if it is pointing at
the position of where your #2 Spark Plug wire would generally be if the cap
were installed.
5.  Adjust both the Intake & Exhaust Valve of Cylinder #2 at .006".
6.  Repeat the above for Cylinder #3, then Cylinder #4

Valve Cover Gaskets are cheap (75 cents ea).  Always replace them when you
pop the Valve Covers for this or any other procedure involving valve/pushrod
maintenance.  You can use gasket goop on the GASKET TO VALVE COVER to help
prevent leaks.  However, NEVER use gasket goop between the Gasket and the
Head - it will always leak.  Gasgacinch is the best I've ever used, as
Permatex tends to be a little thick to work with and air bubbles can crop up,
creating an oil leak as well.

Jim / BusBoys@aol.com
