Date: Tue, 7 Jan 1997 23:00:11 -0800
From: Robert K. Kuhn <kealoha@ISISPH.COM>
To: Multiple recipients of list VINTAGVW <VINTAGVW@SJSUVM1.SJSU.EDU>
Subject: Steering Wheel Adjustment (For Arron)

Hey all ...

This message is for Arron who asked about adjustment of the steering box
(or at least something to that effect).

First, with all wheels on the ground and all pointing straight ahead, move
the steering wheel from side to side (gentle like) until resistance is
felt.  We're checking the freeplay.  The amount of free play at the outer
rim of the steering wheel (assuming we have a stock steering wheel) should
be about an inch (or less).  But I've seen some as much as two inches.

If you have more than 1.5 inches, the steering box (gear) might need
adjusting.  Of course check for other things that can cause free play (ie:
tie rods, ball joints and other suspension parts).

If all that looks good, then try adjusting the steering box/gear:

1) Raise the car up on a pair of jack stands.

2) Turn the steering wheel all the way to the left or right.   Doesn't
really matter.

3) Loosen the large locknut on the worm shaft (located at the lower end of
the steering gear)

4) Now tighten the worm shaft until no play is felt  when moving the worm
back and forth at the coupling.

5) Hold the adjustment and tighten the locknut.

6) Turn the steering wheel from lock-to-lock (turn it all the way to one
side and then all the way to the other).  There should be no binding, if it
doesn't feel *smooth* loosen the worm shaft slightly until the binding is
all gone.

7) Now lower the car and turn the wheels so they point straight ahead and
re-check the free play in the steering wheel.  If it's still more than an
inch (or 1.5 inches), continue on.  Otherwise we're done.

8) WIth the wheels pointed straight ahead, turn the steering wheel 90
degrees to the right or left.

9) Loosen the roller shaft adjusting screw (this is on top the steering box
and a flat blade screw driver is used to make the adjustment).  Loosen this
screw one complete turn then tighten it until you feel the roller contact
the steering worm.  Hold this adjustment and tighten the locknut to about
16-18ft. lbs.

10) Point the wheels straight and check free play with steering turned 90
degrees to the left, then 90 degrees to the right.  The free play should
not be greater than 1 to 1.5 inches.  If the free play is greater on one
side than the other, go back to step #9 on ths side that has the greatest
free play (ie: if there's more play when turned to the left 90 degrees,
then  adjust the play by turning the steering wheel 90 degrees to the left
and go back to #9).

11) With the wheels pointed straight ahead and there's still too much free
play, then your steering box probably needs replacing.

If you have a Super Beetle, I belive it's done as follows:

1) Point the wheels straight ahead.

2) Remove the spare tire and remove the plug over the access hole in the
floor of the compartment.

3) Loosen the locknut on the adjustment screw.

4) Turn the screw (allen type I believe) in until you feel it just makes
contact internally.

5) Hold the adjustment and tighten the locknut.

Re-check the free play, if it's still out of whack, then replace the gear
box.

Warning: If you take too much free play out, you can also run the risk of
the steering box locking up on you which is not a good thing!

If you want to just replace the steering box, lemme know as it's a pretty
simple R&R.

If you don't feel up to doing the above, take it to an alignment shoppe.
If you do manage to get the free play to where it should be, later on you
still might want to have a front end alignment done.

The last time I adjusted a steering box, it took me about 2 hours to get
the slop out.  I later replaced the box when I had the $$$.  :c)  And, if
you do replace the steering box, get an alignment check/adjust done (have
them check the toe-in).

Good luck!

I guess I really should make this into a page and throw it up on my site.
:c)

Robert K. Kuhn (kealoha@isisph.com)
Isis Pharmaceuticals, Inc -- Systems Admin/WebSlave

http://www.isisph.com/~kealoha

" Face your fears, Live your dreams!"
                 -- No Fear!

Steering Wheel Adjustment (For Arron)
