Date: Mon, 19 Jan 2009 0:28:30 -0500
From: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: rtourand <rtourand(-at-)telus.net>
Subject: Re: 68 bus parts

> From: "rtourand" <rtourand(-at-)telus.net>
> Date: Sun, 18 Jan 2009 13:30:52 -0800
>
> I have a rusted out 68 bus that I bought for parts for another project
> and before I get rid of it, was wondering if there was anything that
> could be used in my 66 bus - ie. suspension pieces,

Maybe some of the smaller pieces, like the shocks or tie rod ends.
As E&B said, you won't be able to do a wholesale swap of the entire
front beam, and there are some differences in the back with the
dropping of the reduction gear boxes.

> transmission,

I *think* you can do this, but you have to open it up and move the ring
gear to the other side of the case.  Otherwise you get four speeds
reverse and one speed forward (reduction gear boxes again).

> engine lid,

I don't think this fits.  I have been told that the difference is kind of
subtle (IIRC there is a height difference of an inch or two between a
splitty lid and a loaf lid) and a ruler is recommended when looking
for parts at the swap meet.  You might be able to use the latch,
though.

> wiper motor.

Not directly.  There were some epic posts several years ago trying to
work out which wiper motors cross back and forth for the earlier Buses,
but I'm pretty sure the linkage is different on the loaf Buses.

There are barndoor and splitty parts manuals at
http://oacdp.freeweb7.com/ , but unfortunately no loaf manuals there.
If you have access to a loaf parts manual, you could compare things
back and forth between it and the splitty manual to see what might
interchange.

If the '68 is beyond saving, it can still be useful to go around and take
off screws, speed nuts, washers, spacers, pins, knobs, and stuff like
that.  Lots of the small parts are common to many years, and metric
bolts are still not as easy to find as they should be at the hardware
store.  Plus, the full resto folks are always looking for "correct" knobs
and appearance things, and you might be able to make a good trade
at the parts swap some day.

Matt Roberds
