Date: Mon, 16 Feb 2009 16:43:37 -0500
From: Richard Palmer <richard(-at-)teamspatula.com>
To: Vintagebus <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Fwd:[VANAGON] Women of the Bus

This is a forward from Uncle Joel on the Vanagon list. Please note that the
"I" as written about below is NOT me (Richard) but rather Maggie Dew, the
original poster. Thanks

Hi all,

Taking a cue from Larry's "Buses of the World" calendar <
http://www.lulu.com/content/5280905>, I would like to put together a "Women
of the Bus" calendar for next year  2010.  As with the Buses calendars, all
profits will go to the Pay it Forward Fund (PiFF).  If you are not familiar
with PiFF, check for more information here: <http://www.roadhaus.com/PIF.
html>

I'm starting early to collect photos and information from women in the VW
Bus community.  By "Bus" I mean to include everything from Bays & Splitties
to Eurovans.  My main focus is to be on women who have their own bus and
travel or camp in it either occasionally, on a regular basis, or for
extended periods.  I know some of you are full-timers, while others take the
occasional trip.  I want to capture the sense of freedom and adventure that
embarking on a VW bus trip entails!

I'm hoping for some nice calendar-worthy photos that include both bus and
owner.  Artsy is good.  If you can be creative with these portraits, all the
better, but please don't manipulate or photoshop the image.  I would like to
show more than just a posed photo in front of a bus, but rather something
that imparts more of the bus experience.  For example, here is a nice photo
of Kathleen Piper with her bus, which was submitted by Joyce Mills for the
"Buses of the World" calendar <http://tinyurl.com/dmum6n>.  It says
something like "travel, adventure, outdoors, fun . . ."  well, you get the
idea.

You are welcome to submit photos of yourself and your own bus, or photos of
other women with their buses  as long as they have given permission for the
photo to be used and you supply contact information for them.  Do not send
the photos to this e-mail address, but to vwwomen(-at-)gmail.com



*GUIDELINES*  PLEASE READ CAREFULLY!

1)   Highest resolution photos you have, minimum 1600 x 1200 pixels

2)   Horizontal orientation (see Buses of the World Calendar link)

3)   Please, no "date stamp" on the face of the photo.  A deal-breaker.

4)   Bus and owner should both appear in photo.

5)   Send an e-mail, with photo attached, and include the following:

a.    Name of bus owner

b.    Name of bus, if applicable

c.     Year/model of bus (e.g., 1985 Westy)

d.    Your contact info:  e-mail address, phone number

e.    Your website or blog link if applicable

f.      Where you are located:  City & State, or just State

g.    Where the photo was taken

h.    A sentence or two about you and your bus:  For example, something
about your experiences, travels, feelings, etc. regarding the bus.

6)   At the end of your e-mail, please add this sentence:  "I give
permission for Margaret Dew to use this photograph for publication in a
calendar for 2010".

7)   Put your full name at the bottom of the e-mail

8)   Send your e-mail and photo to me at vwwomen(-at-)gmail.com

While, I am looking forward to publishing this calendar, I am also excited
at the prospect of finding out more about the women of the VW community and
their experiences.

Thanks  and feel free to spread the word to other women.  I will be posting
a notice in several public forums in the next couple of days.

Maggie Dew
