From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 22 Feb 2009 14:39:31 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Insulaton

HI JDD,
  Hmm, not a lot of info with your question.  Are you looking for  more sound 
or thermal insulating of the interior?  Trying to keep heat  out or in?  Type 
of bus and interior?  How far to modify the  interior?  All facts that can 
change how one goes about what needs to be  done.
 
First off, use nothing against sheet metal that if you soak in  water for ten 
minutes you can then squeeze water out of like a sponge or  rag!
 
Having said that, we do have a foam rubber mattress in the back of our 1960  
panel camper conversion.  There is 1/4" plywood underneath it so the  foam 
rubber never touches the top of the corrugated engine compartment  sheet metal.  
Because of the plywood seated on top of the corrugations of  the sheet metal 
it keeps the foam rubber from soaking up any  moisture that can condensate 
there, and allows for air movement to carry  moisture away.
  So perhaps if one wants to apply thin ply wood between any sheet  metal and 
foam rubber it would work for sound, and heat insulation.
 
  Additionally in this camper, the rear bed/seat folds up in such a  way that 
when the seat is up, the back/top of the seat closes off all but  about 1/2" 
from the roof, and is tight to the side cabinets.  So a lot of  engine noise 
is blocked off this way from the front.  When bed is folded  down the foam 
mattress helps with sound insulation, but the inner sheet metal of  the air 
intakes for the engine on either sides really put out a racket for one  laying down 
back there.  Thinking of covering these with thin plywood and  sound dampener 
to quiet things down.
 
  BTW, this same subject was discussed a few years back on this  list!  Back 
then upon reading the on going discussion, a gal down in  San Diego (Can not 
get much farther South in CA) took a look at the engine  compartment sheet 
metal that she had recently covered with foam rubber  for sound insulation in her 
daily driver bus.  Low and behold she found  rust forming due to the 
condensation/foam rubber problem.  She reported  this to the list.  Wish we could 
remember her name.
 
  Next, is to understand that insulation can be sound and/or thermal  
dampening.  Some are better for one and not the other.  EG thin layer  of lead 
against sheet metal over engine compartment will really quiet  things down via 
dampening, but weighs like, well lead, and will not help with  insulating against 
thermal transfer.
   Have heard of a deluxe bus owner who did this lead  sound deadening so his 
passengers in the rear could hear him give his  verbal part of the tour he 
did as a living.  
 
  Did like the mylar bubble packing stuff for thermal and some sound  
insulation, but do not like the recent report that it falls apart.   The big reason 
for liking that stuff was one could install it with bubble side  against the 
metal and that would allow for some air movement to remove moisture  that will 
get in there.  Plus it is light weight.  Probably will still  use it in the 
front doors.
 
Take a look at the later 1970s Beetle door insides.  VW installed a  square 
of thick tar paper glued inside the door with roofing tar.  These  areas never 
rust out!!  
  Figuring on doing that to the outer door sheet metal, and it does  not need 
to cover the entire door interior.
 
  Have seen a 1967 Beetle up here that had 1/4" thick closed foam  sound 
insulation glued to the inner of the doors.  The give away that it  had insulation 
is the top horizontal line of the insulation acted as a ledge and  dirt had 
collected to work as a sponge to rust a line through the  doors.....
  This might have been avoided by using a smaller square of sound  insulation 
and turn it 45 degrees so as to act more like a diamond shape the  dirt might 
have washed away.
  VW avoided this by painting the inner of the door first with tar in  a 
bigger square than the square of tar paper they used.  So even if dirt  collected 
at top of the tar paper horizontal it only held water against the tar  painted 
on the door.
 
  Have seen factory 1966-67 Westfalias with thin styrofoam glued  in spots to 
the inner nose sheet metal.  For sound or thermal  insulation?
  Plus same years of Westies with unbelievably wispy fiberglass  insulation 
pads installed in the left midbay side wall.  This  insulation is about 1" 
thick, but so wispy you can see right through it.   Never seen here any rust 
problems with this stuff so far, but good luck finding  more of it and how 
thermally effective is it?
 
Thinking of tarring (using as little tar as possible) thin vertical  strips 
of doubled up (two layers) roofing paper of heavier  thickness against the 
outer sheet metal.  That will help  with sound dampening, and allow for some air 
movement to let condensation  evaporate, and not just keep collecting.
 
  Then, carving styrofoam sheets into form fitting panels to each  section of 
the interior.  VW supplied really good info on this in the  technical 
bulletin A 5.  Would modify that info with thinner styrofoam due  to the previously 
mentioned roofing paper strips.  Plus with carved 1/4"  tall slots in 
top/bottom of all styrofoam panels to allow for air movement  between stryofoam and 
sheet metal to remove any condensation.
 
  Roof panels are the hard part.  Thinking of wiping on a very  light layer 
of tar over all up there.  Then roofing paper strips again in a  "V" pattern up 
there with a center top strip left clear.  Again adding in  1/4" slots in the 
lowest part of these panels and upper center parts to keep up  enough air 
flow to remove condensation.
 
  The walk thru 1960 panel camper conversion also has from the shop  that 
converted it or DPO a top air vent.  Figuring on using this vent and  its inner 
wood frame to allow for more air circulation behind the paneling by  
drill/cutting slots in the wood frame.  That way when the roof vent is open  the air can 
flow right out of the roof panels up through there.
 
  Have heard that styrofoam tends to squeak when used as insulation in  a 
moving vehicle.  Thinking of trying gluing thin roofing paper to the  styrofoam 
panels to eliminate this.
  
  VW did this by making a sandwiched styrofoam between two layers of  thick 
tar paper for the 1960s-1970s type 1 floor pans for mostly noise  insulation, 
and some thermal insulation.
  If one was interested more in sound insulation you could  use layers of 
thinner styrofoam, then sound deadener, and perhaps  roofing paper.
 
Windows are a big way heat can get in during the day.  Using a  foldable 
reflector panel for the windshield and front door glass when  parked helps a lot.  
For any side or rear windows, using reflective tinting  helps, but can reduce 
night visibility.  So perhaps only adding the tinting  to the upper or lower 
half of the glass would make a good compromise.
 
To keep in heat in cold weather, the only way to make the windows work well  
would be to come up with a way to install thermopane ones.  Have not heard  of 
anyone that is making seals that would allow the thickness of two panes of  
glass, and the separation between them.
 
  If you want more sound insulation you really need to balance the  engine 
reciprocating parts and run a counter weight crankshaft.  An engine  that does 
not vibrate so much will cause less interior noise.  Try going up  a long hill 
in higher engine RPM, and when going downhill shut off the  engine.  The 
difference in how quiet it gets while still rolling at same or  higher wheel RPMs 
is due to the engine vibration.
 
  Have heard of chain saw bar oil being used on the undersides of VWs,  and 
inner parts of panels, and doors that water is designed to drip  through.  This 
apparently works well especially in salted road areas if  applied annually, 
but will not make it rust proof.  
  3M has a rust inhibitor for the inner sides of body panels that  sounds 
like it might work as well or perhaps better.  
  Thinking of trying these, but still allowing for air movement to  keep 
condensation under control.
 
  Have started during our wet cold weather to leave the front air  vents open 
to allow a way for built up moisture to work its way out of our  buses.  
Works very well when the sun comes at least mostly out!
 
  Could take it to the extreme thermal/sound insulation and  construct a VW 
(Westfalia ?) Insulated Van SO 6, or the coachbuilt  refrigerator interiors 
with 3" - 6" thick styrofoam insulation with  wood frame inside the bus, but of 
course you would loose that much more  interior space!!
 
As you can see, this has been and will probably always be a constant  problem 
for us VW folks to deal with.  Good luck!
 
E&B
 
 
In a message dated 2/18/2009 7:37:45 A.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
johndillon(-at-)bellnet.ca writes:

So what  do you suggest for insulation and sound  dampening?


**************A Good Credit Score is 700 or Above. See yours in just 2 easy 
steps! 
(http://pr.atwola.com/promoclk/100126575x1218822736x1201267884/aol?redir=http:%2F%2Fwww.freecreditreport.com%2Fpm%2Fdefault.aspx%3Fsc%3D668072%26hmpgID
%3D62%26bcd%3DfebemailfooterNO62)
