To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, cmeanley(-at-)pacificcoast.net
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles(-at-)mileserickson.com>
Date: Sun, 19 Dec 2004 09:26:25 -0800
Subject: Story: impromptu AIRS assist in WA

Chuck: the favor that you rendered in helping me with my new engine 2 years
ago is now being returned to the islands!

Yesterday, I stopped to help someone who was broken down on the side of the
highway between Mount Vernon and Anacortes, Washington.  The guy had a '71 Bus
that he had owned for about 6 months.  He had bought it on Lopez Island (small
and flat -- tough place to overheat an engine), and this was only the second
time he had taken it off the island.  He was trying to go to Portland, Oregon,
about a 4-5 hour drive from the ferry, but his engine had lost power about 10
minutes after he started driving at highway speeds.  He said he pulled over
and checked the oil but found none, even though he had filled it before
leaving.  Not a good sign.

I looked inside his engine compartment and it was a complete mess: grease
everywhere, air hoses where they didn't belong, stuff missing where it did
belong, etc.  The guy was thinking he could let his engine cool down, add oil,
and then restart it.  I had to give him the disappointing news that his engine
was well and truly seized.  Reasons: the PO had plugged the air outlets that
are normally ducted to the heater boxes (I presume that it's important for
cooling air to be able to exit here?), and the hose that should have gone from
the intake manifold to the brake booster was dangling loose -- everyone's
favorite massive vacuum leak.  Ouch.

The guy said that he had taken his Bus to a mechanic on the island to do a
tune-up before embarking on his trip.  The mechanic took his money and did
something, but these major, completely obvious, easy-to-fix problems were not
brought to his attention.  Sort of like the huge vacuum leak that killed my
old engine's #3 cylinder after I had entrusted it to a local VW mechanic.
Hmm.

I told him how lucky he was to have a '71, since it would be so easy for him
to get a new engine.  I offered to help him install his new engine when it
arrived.  I made him promise that he wouldn't rely on paid mechanics to
maintain his Bus in the future.  I showed him my engine compartment so he
could get a sense of what it *should* look like, and what his *would* look
like once his new engine was in.  He accepted the offer.

It sure feels nice to be the one giving the help instead of just receiving
it.

- Miles
