Date: Sun, 19 Dec 2004 12:41:09 -0600
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: "Bronsema, Max" <MBronsema(-at-)albertson.edu>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Heater just stopped working?

On Sat, Dec 18, 2004 at 07:01:34PM -0700, Bronsema, Max wrote:
> I went on a nice 700 mile roundtrip this week and my heater decided it
> was not going to work. It worked fine the last time I had driven it,
> about 3 weeks ago.

think back three weeks. Several things can change the way the heating
system works. You didn't say what year bus, but except for the small
aux fan on the type4 engines they pretty much work the same. If your
thermostat isn't operating correctly and the air temp is much colder
the air moving to the cabin will be much colder due to the engine not
quite getting up to operating temp. Consult the archives for this
info. Another possibility is a blower tube that has a leak or come off
in the timeframe. Visually check for this, and while doing this verify
that all the heater levers are still operating the heater control it
should (this usually will involve a helper throwing the levers
back/forth)
 
> The defroster works, air does get to the floor vents when you use the
> lever but it does not come out forcefully. I checked the fuses up front
> at a stop and they were fine. I looked in my repair manual and
> supposedly there is a fuse in the engine compartment but I can't find
> it.

Does this mean that you get good hot forceful air from the defrosters?
if so you might have a piece of something in the ducts that is
blocking the floor vents. I wouldn't worry about the elec fan any.
Both engine designs require the engine to be turning reasonablly fast
to produce the airflow. The elec heater in the type4 is just for idle
situations where the engine isn't moving much air. Look elsewhere
first.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
