Date: Mon, 20 Dec 2004 09:27:16 -0600
From: "Harper, Tim P" <HARPETP(-at-)cpchem.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Emergency Brake Light comes on with right turn Signal

I seem to remember someone posting a problem like this last week. Since I
wasn't having any problem like this, I simply grazed over it. I have been
having trouble with my fuel guage not reading. This is a 71 bus by the way. I
found that if I reached under the dash and felt the wires on the back side of
the fuel guage, which also has all the idiot lights, I could find the right
wire to get the guage to pop up and read a little over half a tank, which I
believe is correct. Well, I was ambitious the other day, and replaced the left
rear shock. Did the right rear last year. Thought I might even drive it a bit
since mechanically it's whole again. Started the engine to warm it up and
charge the battery. Battery didn't even need the charger this time , so I'm
getting closer, or so I thought. Once agian the gas guage needle was out of
sight. Started the wire wiggling procedure again and this time screwed
something up. Now, with the lights on, the left signal blinks slower than
usual and the right one blinks normal, but the brake light comes on, until I
hit the brakes. Lights off the left blinker blinks like crazy and the right
one seems normal, except for the brake light coming on. I also noticed that if
I accidently lost the high beam indicator, the lights would go out until I
wiggled it back on. As soon as it's warm enough, I plan to pull the dash and
see what in God's name I did. But the days are getting colder and there's not
enough light when I get home from work. Too dark in the garage to do it
without using a shop light. Sounds like I might have broken a ground wire and
now all the guages are grounding through the brake light switches. I don't
know. I had it all working and looking great and now it's screwed up. Any
suggestions would be greatly appreciated. Oh yeah, fuel guage still reading
zero. Arrghhhh!!!
Tim
