From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 20 Dec 2004 13:15:13 -0500
Subject: Should I use this new harness???

Hey guys,

	I purchased a complete Painless wiring kit for my 73 VW Bus a long time ago. It's been sitting in a box since I purchased it. I had gotten it running and decided not to use it. I was determined to get a replacement harness for my Bus but it appears as though they no longer sell them.
So I'm seriously considering using it now. The problem is that it comes with a fuse block, completely different than the one that's currently being used on my Bus.  

My question is, has anyone installed one of these "Universal" harnesses from Painless in a VW Bus?

It comes with all the fittings, relays, you name it. For whatever reason, I actually purchased the 21 circuit kit (I don't know why...). So it's wired to control everything from power door locks, to rear defog (which I do actually have...) and other things.

I'm just looking to hear from anyone that has done this with a NON standard VW Bus harness.

I suppose one of the good things about this is that now I can really learn where everything goes, and I know everything will be new. Also... I'll actually have alternating turn-signal lights now!!!! :) and not just have both of them flash on the dash whenever I use my turn signal. 


In response to some of the questions I was asked on the last e-mail I sent to the list (which I want to reply to each one individually.. thanks for helping me!). The factory harness is completely shot.... I mean totally shot. 

The fuse block looks almost as if it had caught fire at one point. There are wires hanging every which way from underneath the dash... there is NO radio wiring... the wiring for the dome lights are also gone. The door ajar switches are not wired up. The wiring behind the fuse block might have literally been used as a rat's nest (seriously). The engine compartment has wires hanging every which way.
What's really frustrating is that there is what looks like a major wiring harness comming out of the firewall that has literally been cut 1" out of the wall (looks like 5-6 wires).

There is another harness that is actually being used, but the wires have been spliced with other wires.

Honestly, I'm surprised that I was able to get hte car running AT ALL! :)

The main wire that appears to go from the battery to the fuse block looks as if there was ANOTHER wire attached to it (of equal size) but it has since melted and it continues to crumble as I take it apart. 

I figured I would just use this new harness that I have because everything is wired. There is nothing different about the VW motor that this wiring harness can't handle.... 



Thanks!!!

Todd,
2002 Ford Crown Victoria LX
1997 Pontiac Grand Am GT
1987 Pontiac Fiero SE / V6 5-Speed
1987 Pontiac Fiero SE / V6 Auto
1984 Pontiac Fiero 2m4 SE WS6
1981 Pontiac TransAm WS6
1973 Volkswagen Type-2 Transporter
