From: "Andy" <airhedz(-at-)alamedanet.net>
To: "Karl von Salzen" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>, "Chris M."
Date: Mon, 20 Dec 2004 20:08:49 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: Factory / Dealer Fog Lamps

Regulations vary from state to state. You'd do well to investigate laws in
your locale.
I'll discuss the California law
(http://www.dmv.ca.gov/pubs/vctop/vc/tocd12c2a2.htm),
and US Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 108
(full text here: http://fmvss108.tripod.com/fmvss108text.htm).

Is there a federal DOT law site I've been unable to find?

You can probably find your state laws if you start at http://www.dmv.org.


 Karl wrote:
>
> You want fog beams to be mounted below the bumper so
> the light is along the ground in front of you. Fog
> lights have a flat horizontal beam because of this.



California Vehicle Code Division 12 - Equipment of Vehicles, Chapter 2,
Article 2

Section 24403

"(a) A motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two fog lamps that
may be used with, but may not be used in substitution of, headlamps.

(b) On a motor vehicle other than a motorcycle, the fog lamps authorized
under this section shall be mounted on the front at a height of not less
than 12 inches nor more than 30 inches and aimed so that when the vehicle is
not loaded none of the high-intensity portion of the light to the left of
the center of the vehicle projects higher than a level of four inches below
the level of the center of the lamp from which it comes, for a distance of
25 feet in front of the vehicle."


(Another section describes mounting measurements, and they are level ground
to the center of the lamp.)

There is no restriction against using fog lamps with high beams in the
California code. There is, however, a restriction against using driving
lights with low beams. Common sense presides here. High beams suck in fog.


Section 24405

"(a) Not more than four lamps of the following types showing to the front of
a vehicle may be lighted at any one time:

(1) Headlamps.

(2) Auxiliary driving or passing lamps.

(3) Fog lamps.

(4) Warning lamps.

(5) Spot lamps.

(6) Gaseous discharge lamps specified in Section 25258.

(b) For the purpose of this section each pair of a dual headlamp system
shall be considered as one lamp.

(c) Subdivision (a) does not apply to any authorized emergency vehicle."



> US lighting restricts the AMOUNT of lights you can
> have on in front, not wattage.


Incorrect. US Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard 108, S7.3.2 (I'm not
gonna quote it all here, even I have my limits) discusses the wattages of
different headlamp configurations. The highest I saw was 70 watts.


> You are allowed 4
> lights not counting parking lights. Either low beams
> and fog lights or high beams and driving lights.


As far as I could find, there is no maximum limit to number of lamps lit
regarding the federal law. This part of the FMVSS deals mostly with minimum
requirements, setting the standards for manufacturers. Between state laws
and federal laws, states will enforce their laws. It looks like there will
be federal regulation in the future, though. NHTSA has published a request
for comments regarding glare from front mounted lamps
(http://www.nhtsa.gov/cars/rules/rulings/glare.html). It's about time.

Sorry this is so long. Hope it's informative.

Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)earthlink.net
'79 Westy
'79 Kombi Sunroof
Alameda, CA

"What good fortune for governments that the people don't think." -Hitler
