Date: Mon, 20 Dec 2004 22:53:25 -0700
From: Craig <momentum(-at-)extremezone.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Oil /  Fuel Leak, Still Unsolved

Hello All,

I'm not having much success with this problem...as of yet!

     1981 Vanagon Federal, CV, 2L, FI, Manual, w/ a Torque Special Hydraulic
Cam 

I've replaced the cylinder head with a rebuild after the #1 lost it's valve
seat. I started setting her back to the was she was running before ( which
could only be part of the cause for the lost valve seat), not sure why it
went other than the overheating factor.  I adjusted the valves and was
working on timing and idle speed when the problem/s started.

What I discovered was oil/fuel liquid coming from what I believe is the
Cylinder head to Cylinder barrel surface areas. The pieces were lapped per
Muir and assembled back to the way I first built it with the 1.6 mm shim and
no paper gasket. 

Also discovered was nearly five Quarts of fueled oil in the sump. I probably
overfilled this when I didn't remind myself to leave out that extra half Qt.
for the filter. Still, FIVE Quarts!

 I have drained and refilled her with oil, checked for leaks on the
injectors and cold start valve, adjusted the valves, bleed an exhaust lifter
in #2, (still needs work), located TDC and have bought all the gaskets and
seals I think I may have needed.

Tried again and the leaks and shi**y idle have come back to haunt me.

I noticed that a pencil was no longer a good tool to find TDC. The piston
drives it against the back valve or head and traps it. I have been using a
paint brush handle, about 1/8 inch wide. Is this Normal?

I fiddled with the AFM before the leaks started and Lost It's setting. I've
searched the Web pages and can't find a starting point to go from. I
remember a listee saying 1 1/2  turn from the bottom up was good. Any specs
or experience here?

  #1 intake lifter went soft and I do believe I heard a lifter "pop" and
when I looked #2 intake lost its initial setting.

The Oil level hasn't changed in the sump.

No evidence of the front or rear seals leaking. The oil cooler and filter
are tight.

This is turning into a novellete.

Can anyone help me solve this?  I do have a strong feeling that the lifters
are causing this. I found two that "felt" sound, but later had gotten soft.

Thanks,  Craig
