Date: Sun, 13 Feb 2005 11:07:52 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2 <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: fan shim, muffler q's and 1st engine drop 

When Hal and I dropped my engine on Friday to change the clutch, we
noticed that the shim that is supposed to appear between the fan and
the crankshaft was missing. Hal had one, so the engine now has it, but
what effect would not having that shim have?

Also, Hal had a quiet-pack muffler where I have a glasspack (yuck). His
engine was noticably quieter, so now I want his muffler :) In searching
the 'net, the prices vary pretty widely, but everyone seems to say
these rust out in 2 years regardless of which one you buy. Is that
really true? Is a bugpack muffler going to rust to dust as quickly as
an EMPI? Is either one better than the other or worth the extra price?

Public props to Hal. He arrived around 8:30AM on Friday, and didn't
leave until after 4:30PM. In that time, we pulled and re-installed the
engine, replaced a bunch of stuff, made a long parts run, and
inspected/cleaned/etc lots of things. After all that I had to insist
that he take the case of beer I offered for help. Hal, you're aces in
my book. Lemme know if you or the DDB need a hand on something, and
I'll be there.

<engine pull bits and pieces>
engine pull:
Schucks-style 2-ton jack didn't have sufficient lift, so the stock jack
+ stands were used. tires less than 2" off the ground was enough.
Pulled Weber to provide adequate clearance. ATV jack proved worth its
$50 price tag.
inspect:
throw-out bearing was cause of scraping sound. BusDepot clutch kit has
new bearing (turns out I had another one in a box of parts). Clutch and
preassure plate inspected ok. Flywheel still had last machining marks
on it, and had no edges, so it was not removed for turning. heads
appear to be 2L heads (according to Hal) which makes me wonder what the
displacement of this engine is as it has hydrolifters. HE appear to be
411 HE's (no wonder its so bloody cold).
actions:
replaced throw-out bearing, clutch and pressure plate (old PP&C dated
'94 into box for emergency). new fuel lines, filter. new carb:intake
gasket. lament lack of forethought to prepare dual Solexes for swapout.
new HE:exhaust gaskets. New bumper bolts, new stainless steel exhaust
hardware. new dipstick boot (caused end of day as I couldn't find the
new one)
engine in:
less than 20 minutes of wiggling / rear DS wheel turning, and
tranny:engine mating complete. ATV jack value realized. Cinched in with
mounting bolts.
remaining:
Weber carb, engine tin & seal, dipstick boot (bought new one, Grr..),
air cleaner, etc. Should be complete by end-of-day if I get off the PC
long enough to do the work, and I'll be driving to work on Monday.
Hazah! No 2-hr Tri-Met commute! Thanks again, Hal, and thanks to the
list for all your help.

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy)
