Date: Sun, 13 Feb 2005 19:09:19 -0800
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: TYPE 2 LIST <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Quick update on Denver trip

I'll go update the site after I get a look at my pics...

Bus has been kicking butt (except for the idling issue). Only rarely
is a hill steep enough that I drop below 50 in 4th, which makes me
drop into 3rd at 40...

I've been holding 60mph on flats and grades, 65 on downgrades. The
squirrelliness I complained about yesterday with the new tires has
gone away. I guess they just needed to "break in" or something.
America's Tire Store is still gonna get an earful from me, along with
2 tires that they're going to replace or get sued. Selling me out of
spec tires when I specifically asked for correct ones is just plain
wrong.

I've only seen two busses so far since SoCal: one late bay Westy in a
roadside junkyard in NM and one early bay Campmobile sunroof at a gas
station. The owner of that one wasn't around when I pulled to the pump
next to him, so I figured I'd catch a chat after I went inside to pay
for my gas. As I walked out he was pulling onto the 40 Westbound. If
he was going Eastbound, I could have easily caught him and made him
carabus with me... Too bad. LoL! This was in AZ. (If you're on this
list... HI!!! hehehe)

Last night's hotel was the skankiest place I've stayed since I was 19
and stayed in a $22 joint on Beach Boulevard in Stanton, CA.  But it
was $33, I was tired, and I couldn't find the Motel 6 the sign on the
freeway promised. If they really did leave the light on for me, they
were hiding it!

Tonight I'm staying in a Microtel in Albuquerque, NM. I'd never heard
of these places until I crossed into AZ and started seeing signs for
them. $47 a night, and it's a suite! Has a sitting room, sink, fridge,
microwave, etc. All it's missing is the coffee pot. Very nice and
clean, and free wireless broadband. heh

I've gotta say that I'm SOOOOOO glad I took this trip. Yeah, my back
hurts, yeah, it's more expensive than flying, but I'm getting so much
peace of mind, and the scenery is just awesome. This has got to be one
of the best decisions I've made in a long time... And those of you who
don't think your busses can make a long trip, THEY CAN! Take care of
the basics as Richard and Karl and others keep reminding us, don't try
to drive your bus like a sports car, and you'll do fine! If you break
down, so what? Fix it! Not like you have anything better to do...

And trust me, there isn't anything better. 

-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White goes to DENVER:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/denvertrip
