From: "Arnaud -" <turbo_2cv(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 14 Feb 2005 22:09:01 +0000
Subject: Having good brakes rocks, now what about a dry engine ?

Hi friends,

Turning the pistons in the caliper turned out to be a success. Da van 
finally brakes straight and strong and the 'tampered with' caliper isn't 
leaking. The bus rolls better since that front right wheel isn't dragging 
all the time anymore. In my most enthusiastic dreams I find myself 
discovering that as a result the gas mileage was increased by 1e-6 mpg or 
more ...

With that done, time to relax: engine.

Remember my engine leaks at the base of the cylinders, close to the 
crankcase, on both sides. It is so dirty in there that I did not bother to 
check wether it was the cylinders or the pushrod tubes leaking before trying 
to use a quick fix heard on the list : torque the heads.

The heads were effectively loose. I torqued only the 4 nuts on each side 
that can be accessed without dropping the engine (ouch someone on the list 
is going to hit me on the head for not doing it properly). I understand that 
this isn't the most pure way of doing it, but I want to wait a bit before I 
drop the engine. I'm still afraid of doing it and whenever I will I want to 
do as many things as possible while it is out. Anyway : does this kind of 
half torquing increase the chances of craking the head ?

As a side note,  I was surprised, because Muir says that a loose head can be 
torqued with the engine in (in the engine overhaul chapter, at the beginning 
where the diagnostics are). Could Muir be wrong ? I guess yes, since he 
liked the 009...

After torquing the heads I started to do my first valve adjustment ever. I 
was really surprised to find all 8 valves really tight (less than 0.001). I 
guess it is a result of torquing the heads (some heads nuts were so loose 
that i could almost turn them without a tool...). Here is the story : 
Because the heads were loose, they were away from the pushrods, therefore 
the last time PO had the valves adjusted, they were right at 0.006 given 
that the heads were loose.

Because it was time to go to work and my level of confidence went down after 
measuring no valve with a proper clearance, I thought I'd post here and get 
some opinions before I loosen all of them to 0.006 tonite.
happy bussing

- Arnaud
71 westy
