From: "Bill Moon" <moon(-at-)crosslink.net>
To: "VW - Type 2 mailing list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Apr 2004 11:20:32 -0400
Subject: Dwell adjustment using dwell meter 

I've been adjusting my dwell the following way for longer than I can remember,
but I have never seen it written up so here goes. Rather than using a feeler
gauge, I hook up the dwell meter, pull the cap off the distributor, and adjust
the dwell while someone is cranking the starter with the ignition key. There
is a small notch on the edge of the points near the distributor wall. By
placing one end of a moderately wide flat screwdriver blade in this notch and
holding the other end of the blade against the distributor wall, it is
possible (with the point hold down screw loosened) to adjust the points by
slowly twisting the screwdriver back and forth until the dwell is correct.
Once the correct size screwdriver blade is found it is an easy adjustment.

The method I use is this (it sounds much harder to describe than it actually
is). With someone ready with the ignition key, but not cranking yet, I place
one screwdriver (in my left hand) on the hold down screw slot and another
screwdriver (in my right hand) between the notch and wall as described above.
Then I spend a minute getting the feel of loosening the hold down screw with
my left hand, moving the points by twisting the screwdriver in my right hand
back and forth, and then tightening the hold down screw with my left hand.
Then, when I am ready, I have the other person crank the starter and repeat
the above move, this time watching the dwell meter as I make the adjustment.
Then stop the cranking, double check that the adjustment screw is tight, put
the distributor cap back on and double check the setting with the engine
running. With a distributor in good condition, I find excellent agreement
between cranking dwell and running dwell.

Again, it sounds harder to describe than it actually is. These are very small
twisting motions with each screwdriver. You want to loosen the hold down screw
with the left hand just enough to allow the points to be adjusted. If it is
loosened too much the points will wobble while you are trying to adjust them.
Once you get the feel of it, it takes just a few seconds to make the
adjustment. I think it is a much quicker and more accurate method than using a
feeler gauge.

Bill Moon
'71 VW Type 2
'72 Saab 96
