Date: Mon, 12 Apr 2004 15:17:27 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Weekend FI testing

I spent part of the weekend testing my fuel injection system on the bench. I also used the opportunity to test all of the spare FI parts I'd collected during the past year.

The first thing I noticed was that the 1L/min that the various FI test manuals states as the minumum flow rate was easy to achieve. All the pumps flowed 2-2.5L/min so that's my defintion of a healthy pump.

My cold start valve had a heavy crust on the front of the orifice. It looks like the same rusty paste that was clogging the EGR tubes in the air plenum. Barely any spray came out but it never needed to fire much in this climate anyway. BTW, EGR pipes in the plenum aren't the same length of have the same number of holes on each side. I was thinking it would be ideal if the amount of exhaust blown through was evenly distributed but whomever made the plenum didn't think so.

I dug out a 3-way toggle switch for my testing. I wired the center pole up to the battery, the left pole to the pump and the right pole to the CSV so I could build pressure, hold it and operate the CSV. Positive is left on the csv which I believe is contracted in some of those crummy last minute hand drawings in Bentley. Maybe they were holding it upside down. The originals aren't marked +/- but the Bosch only numbered units seem to be.

I wasn't thinking of testing the pressure regulator after I pulled the engine but luckily I noticed some crud inside which prompted all of these tests.

http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Engine/36-ConeGrommet.jpg

The hard crud is a leftover from the gas tank sludge I had two years ago and it appears to have damaged the diaphragm inside. If you clean your gas tank be sure to inspect and rest the pressure regulator.

I have a very accurate 60psi pressure gauge I built into a homemade FI tester with pressure reduction valve (thanks again to Scott Lyons for the Loctite 565 advice). Although the fuel rail pressure built up to 37 psi the PR couldn't hold pressure after the pump was shut off: the fuel drained into my catch container and fuel pressure dropped to zero within seconds. The needle was also bouncing around about 1/2 psi which makes sense.

The replacement pressure regulator held pressure steady at 36 psi and didn't leak a drop. I let it sit for 8 hours and it was in the mid-high 20s. After 24hrs and the pressure was still about 15 psi.

All that's left to test is the thermo time switch which having been buried under the plenum failed to motiviate me to check on it. It's rated for 8s and 35C which I don't think it actually mentioned in Bentley. Maybe I'm wrong.

http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/FI/42-TTSSide3.jpg

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell
Cupertino, CA
