From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 12 Apr 2004 21:16:56 -0500
Subject: TUG and then a leaky 30 PICT-1

Volk-a-maniacs,

So I was driving home from Puyallup a few weeks ago and Annie ('63 Panel
convert to camper) starts to tug.  I think, boy that wind is sure pushing me
around.  Tug.  Hmmph.  Tug.  Tug  a few miles and some focus on the Tug later,
it turns into nothing but TUG, but somewhat infrequent.  GRRR...  I make a
stop along the way because it is freaking me out.  I took some 15 minutes or
so to cool off.  I thought for sure maybe the engine was cooking, but no, the
light was not on and yes I tried Clara's spit trick.  It being dark, late and
me with my wife and the 2 year old in the back I have got to get home.  Grr I
think.  I get back on the road and it just progressively gets worse and more
consistent.  Nothing but TUG now.  I have to stop for good.

So, let me explain this TUG a bit.  Ya know that feeling like you just tugged
someone's car on a tow rope?  This was the same except a little lighter, like
the wind was just pushing me backwards.  Best way I can describe this is to
have you get in your bus, drive slowly down your street and pump your gas
pedal.  That is the feeling.  But without the control.

So, I futzed around with some things, made sure nothing too obvious was
causing issues and then decided I had to get the family home the easiest and
safest way possible.  Call AAA.  Only 50 miles at $3 a mile... why do I have
AAA?  :-(

So, now I have Annie home and no time to work on her until the following
weekend (two weeks ago).  When I did find the time, I checked the fuel line
from the tank, fuel coming from the pump, and the points, sparkplugs and
distributor cap/rotor.  All look pretty ok.  I start her up again thinking
maybe I just futzed my way into solving the issue without actually doing
anything.  No change.  At idle, the engine just does not run constantly.  All
the spark plugs are firing, so it isn't that.  Next stop, carburetor.

Saving the best for last, I took the carburetor off (30 PICT-1) and proceeded
to take it apart... slowly.  Removing and remembering every part I touch.
Float looks fine, the little float stoppy valve on the top of the float
container seems OK, it's spritzing fuel out at me as I push the lever.  I
bought two cans of Carb Cleaner and used one whole can on this thing in every
possible way to clean it that I could think of.  It sure is pretty now.  But
still nothing that seems out of place or blatantly wrong.

I put the carb back on and nothing.  I still get the sputtery inconsistency.
But now to add to the fun, when the engine finally dies or I turn it off, FUEL
IS LEAKING from the throttle lever bolt that runs all the way through to the
pump connecting rod.  In the middle of this bolt is the bottom butterfly
valve.  Somehow I created a leak by cleaning it.  Grrrr in so many ways.

Any words of advice for my first and main issue?  Why would something like
this develop 2/3 of the way into a nice evenly paced long trip... and nothing
obvious be wrong?  What could it be?

My new and more frustrating issue... drippy carb.  I am in process of
searching out a second or replacement carburetor, which should I get?  I'm
running with a 009 disti and this is a single port engine.

Help.
Greg
'63 Annie

P.S.  Sad news.  My wife's uncle's '67 beetle was in an accident.  Front end
is mashed.  Was a nice car with all the chrome and stuff.  It was a show
placing car.  Although a beetle, it was of age.
