Date: Tue, 13 Apr 2004 09:39:28 -0700
To: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Decison  -opinions needed

At 08:35 AM 04/13/2004, you wrote:
>My bus has a lot of rust.

Strip it of usable parts and junk it.

>It's a 74, all original deluxe westie with one exception. It has a 2liter
>fuel injected motor in it. It's an automatic.  It's immaculate. No rust 
>whatsoever.
>literally.

Inspect it thoroughly prior to offer. Not if it's a stick converted to 
auto. FI motor is fine if the mounts for air filter are correct and the 
fuel pump and filter and tank return was done properly and the ECU mount as 
well. I would hope to see an FI tank replacement rather than a converted 
carb tank.

Expect to see receipts for history of maintenance and repair and the 
updated motor install. I like to do this PRIOR to actual inspection, in 
fact, it is the only correct first step for any inspection, cursory or 
otherwise. Then CONFIRM the history as you conduct the inspection. Now you 
have a sense of the skills applied. The closer to stock fit and finish the 
higher the value. Then check the maintenance procedures and charts in 
Bentley and identify all maintenance due or over due and then add cost for 
any parts/labor needed for repairs.

Verify if you got a bunch of otherworld replacement parts or mostly OEM. 
Makes a very big difference in value received. I start to walk away if I 
see nothing but Napa filters and half pints of noname Dot3 or nothing but 
dirty fluids.

>Thoughts?
>If I were to skip the rebuild I would sell mine and be honest about it 
>possibly
>needing some work in the future.

Every single one will need work in the future. Takes me 2 hours or more to 
inspect a vehicle I see for the first time. 10 minutes to a half hour to 
review and organize the documented history, an hour to an hour and a half 
for hands on inspection, another half hour to an hour to prepare an 
estimate of parts/labor to correct all weaknesses, defects or get the 
maintenance up to date. The result is the rational cost to verify safe and 
reliable for uses contemplated.
