Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2001 12:51:35 -0500
From: Kathryn Bowman <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "VintageBus List (msge)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: "The Great Bus Tour" and Hubcap...

Good morning all,

This morning the infamous "Hubcap" and it's travelling trunk full of
wonderful goodies was placed into the bed of the only known fully and
freshly restored Binz Double Cab.  It will now continue it's journey to
many points elsewhere.  It's been in the St. Louis area since the "Busses=

Nowhere Near The Arch" event on Labor Day.  Dan Kinsey just picked up his=

1958 Binz from the restoration shop in Grand Junction, Colorado and is
currently driving it across the USA towards his home near Orlando, FL.  H=
e
swung by last night to rest and overnight with us here in the suburbs of
St. Louis, MO.  Man, is that Dove Blue paint job beautiful!!!  They did a=

nice job on this Binz.  =


Anyway, we had the formal Hubcap "Handoff" ceremony in my driveway,
complete with the required photographs, and they I hopped into my 1959
Double Door Panel and Dan into his Binz and we went off to enjoy breakfas=
t
before he hopped onto the highway bound for Atlanta tonight.  So if you'r=
e
out and about today in the Midwest and see a southeast bound flash of Dov=
e
Blue, chase him down, or at least wave!  Dan has just left St. Louis,
heading east on I-64 to Mt. Vernon, Il and then turning south onto I-57,
then onto I-24 through Paducah, KY, continuing on I-24 through Nashville,=

TN to Chatanooga.  Then he'll hop onto I-75 south to Atlanta.  I imagine
he'll be trying to hook up with Dave Easterwood of NEATO fame in the
Atlanta area tonight.  On Friday he'll go straight through to the Bulli
Brigade event down in Tampa to debut the Binz and show off and then pass =
on
the Hubcap to someone there so that it can head off in new direction.  =


If you're going to the event and interested seeing the Hubcap, please loo=
k
Dan up.  If you might be interested in carrying the torch for a leg, you
must be able to transport it "only" in a Type 2 of some kind/era.  There =
is
a web site for "the Great Bus Tour at:  www.type2.com/~chuff    for more
Tour info.  Check out the cool donated momentos of previous keepers of th=
e
Hubcap and read the Tour logbook which is constantly updated by the curre=
nt
Bus driver.

It was great to see Dan and his very cool Binz, and it was nice to see th=
e
Hubcap heading off in a new direction again.  Check both out if you can!

Bill Bowman
NEATO
