From: "Craig Ayres-Sevier" <n7cas(-at-)gbis.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 8 Nov 2001 21:06:47 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Loyalty and Reality

> all because they forgot to connect the wire to your choke?
> josh

Jeez, Josh, no, I don't think I'm that much of a loon or a lout. Rather,
it's "all because" I took it back several times, at considerable
inconvenience, for the problem to be corrected. They made the error. And
they repeatedly failed to correct it. Spent money every time.

But mostly... "All because" I'd rather not realize the "because" in the dead
of night, 15 miles out in the middle of nowhere, just because I had
misplaced my faith in a shop that kept assuring me the problem was fixed,
ka-ching, when it hadn't even been properly diagnosed.

For what such "forgetfulness" lacks in intent -- a forgetfulness they had
several occasions to realize -- is more than made up for in costly
consequences, not only to the bus engine itself but also in its driver's
personal safety, stranded in a pitch-black night on the side of some dark
highway.

It's one of the reasons I take my bus' mechanical life so seriously, and
when in those times I can't make it reliable myself due to my work hours or
insufficient expertise for the more complex matters, that's when I resort
with reasonable expectations to a bonafide professional, so I'm not getting
stranded in said situation.

True, the cause didn't occur to me, either, but I wasn't the one working on
the bus, taking money, and providing the reassurances -- nor, most
poignantly, do I have a VW Bus Repair sign outside my door. It's not
forgetfulness -- especially when I returned it on two successive occasions.
At that point, it's hardly a normal lapse of mindfulness -- it's apathy,
ignorance, exploitation and unprofessionalism, all rolled into one.

Yeh, they made a mistake. But I draw the line at "several times," especially
when another shop took one look at it and got it back on the road in its
previously consistently strongly running state in a matter of hours, not
days or weeks, or what was approaching a MONTH.

'K?

Craig.




