Date: Fri, 9 Nov 2001 16:16:40 -0600
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Rick Taylor <taylorr(-at-)snh450.k12.ks.us>
Subject: The North American Pucks

Since the topic came up this week, I just thought I would add a few words.
The Pucks and other European camping trailers are really cool and look good
behind our busses, but here in North America since the late 60's have been
some really nice campers manufactured that can also be towed behind a bus.

I really enjoy camping and without a doubt love to drive busses, but
sometimes camping in my bus isn't the best.  There are times when camping
that I would like to drive into town, or a VW show and so I have to "break
camp" and throw everything into the bus.  With a trailer, you can use ANY
type of bus to camp with.  If you have a Deluxe, Pickup, or Panel, with a
camp trailer, you are still able to camp in style, not just with a tent.
My Scamp now has hot and cold running water, a forced air furnace, air
conditioning, stove, 'fridge, awning, dinette for 4, sleeping for 4 and
lots of storage space.

This summer, I pulled my Scamp over 8,000 miles with a '76 westy.  But the
westy is a bit of an over-kill with all the unused camping room, so in the
body shop right now, I have a '63 Double Cab that will be the pulling
vehicle next year which will cut off 1500 extra pounds over the bay westy.

The North American Pucks are built with fiberglass, so there is very little
wood to rot, or places to leak.  These little campers weigh 985 pounds
empty.  The shape is very streamlined, so winds don't affect them.  And
unlike a Puck, the fiberglass campers can sleep two adults and 2 large kids
with ease.

The first fiberglass campers were made in Canada and were named Bolers from
the look of the trailer.  Because of their success, many franchises were
sold and many more campers were built, but they all looked identical.  Some
names of the American Bolers were Scamp, Cassita, ECO, Love Bug and maybe
others as well.

Some sites to see these campers are:

Scamp - http://www.scamptrailers.com/
Cassita - http://www.casitatraveltrailers.com/
Boler - http://www.geocities.com/bolerama/




Ramblings from an old shop teacher,
Rick Taylor
School Email - <taylorr(-at-)snh450.k12.ks.us>
Home Email - <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
Smack dab in the middle of the USA,
Berryton, Kansas





