From: "Dan Kinsey" <thatvwguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Kathryn Bowman" <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>,
Date: Sun, 11 Nov 2001 21:27:00 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] "The Great Bus Tour" and Hubcap...

Made it to Dave Easterwood's home in Atlanta without any problems.  Next
morning a caravan of 6 splits headed out for Bulli Brigade in Tampa.  The
hub cap rode in the back of the Binz and was driven by several bus
enthusiasts.  In total the hubcap rode (-at-) 1,000 miles in the back of my Binz.
At the Bulli Brigade I passed the Hub Cap to Kelly aka Metwiz from North
Carolina who carried it home in his newly acquired Binz.  Thought it was
quite cool that the hub cap has ridden in 2 of the remaining 17 Binz.  8-)

Really enjoyed looking through the treasure chest.

-Dan



----- Original Message -----
From: "Kathryn Bowman" <BussesBytheArch(-at-)compuserve.com>
To: "VintageBus List (msge)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>; "Great Bus Tour"
<hubcap(-at-)type2.com>; "Missouri Micros (msge)" <missouri_micros(-at-)egroups.com>;
"Easterwood, Dave" <deasterw(-at-)mindspring.com>; "Easterwood, David"
<deasterw(-at-)spsu.edu>; "Mr. Eastwood" <neato(-at-)mindspring.com>
Sent: Thursday, November 08, 2001 12:51 PM
Subject: [VB] "The Great Bus Tour" and Hubcap...


Good morning all,

This morning the infamous "Hubcap" and it's travelling trunk full of
wonderful goodies was placed into the bed of the only known fully and
freshly restored Binz Double Cab.  It will now continue it's journey to
many points elsewhere.  It's been in the St. Louis area since the "Busses
Nowhere Near The Arch" event on Labor Day.  Dan Kinsey just picked up his
1958 Binz from the restoration shop in Grand Junction, Colorado and is
currently driving it across the USA towards his home near Orlando, FL.  He
swung by last night to rest and overnight with us here in the suburbs of
St. Louis, MO.  Man, is that Dove Blue paint job beautiful!!!  They did a
nice job on this Binz.

Anyway, we had the formal Hubcap "Handoff" ceremony in my driveway,
complete with the required photographs, and they I hopped into my 1959
Double Door Panel and Dan into his Binz and we went off to enjoy breakfast
before he hopped onto the highway bound for Atlanta tonight.  So if you're
out and about today in the Midwest and see a southeast bound flash of Dove
Blue, chase him down, or at least wave!  Dan has just left St. Louis,
heading east on I-64 to Mt. Vernon, Il and then turning south onto I-57,
then onto I-24 through Paducah, KY, continuing on I-24 through Nashville,
TN to Chatanooga.  Then he'll hop onto I-75 south to Atlanta.  I imagine
he'll be trying to hook up with Dave Easterwood of NEATO fame in the
Atlanta area tonight.  On Friday he'll go straight through to the Bulli
Brigade event down in Tampa to debut the Binz and show off and then pass on
the Hubcap to someone there so that it can head off in new direction.

If you're going to the event and interested seeing the Hubcap, please look
Dan up.  If you might be interested in carrying the torch for a leg, you
must be able to transport it "only" in a Type 2 of some kind/era.  There is
a web site for "the Great Bus Tour at:  www.type2.com/~chuff    for more
Tour info.  Check out the cool donated momentos of previous keepers of the
Hubcap and read the Tour logbook which is constantly updated by the current
Bus driver.

It was great to see Dan and his very cool Binz, and it was nice to see the
Hubcap heading off in a new direction again.  Check both out if you can!

Bill Bowman
NEATO

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com


