From: "Thomas Ainlay" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 16 May 2002 10:47:40 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Dual circuit upgrade

The spacer kit is an overpriced $40.  Somebody really should knock it off
for $20 and still make a profit.  The Brazilian MC is around $45.  What
proportioning valve?  If it is needed then just get one from the junkyard
for practically nothing and splice it in where the single line splits to
each side in the rear.  So it looks like ~85 vs. $175.  Now move ahead to
the next time you need a MC (it's possible) and (at today's prices) you are
at $45 vs. $175.  Either way the dual circuit is a safer option, IMO.  I
will be going this route in a week and went with a German MC for my
conversion so my cost was $40 + $94 =$134.  I intend to keep the bus until
there isn't any fuel for it so when the time comes to change the MC what are
the chances that the one year only will even be available vs. the 8 or 9
year version.  We'll see about the proportioning valve but it seems like
there are plenty of busses running around without it.

FYI, apparently those who purchased the adapter kit from Wolfgang went with
the Brazilian MC as there is a difference between it and the German ATE
version.  The German ATE MC I got wouldn't fit the through hole in the
aluminum spacer.  The diameter of the step was larger compared to the
Brazilian MC.  In normal use this isn't a concern as the MC registers on the
larger diameter near the seal and flange.  I had to send the MC to Wolfgang
to get the spacer machined to fit properly.

Thomas

-----Original Message-----
From: OldVolks General [mailto:General(-at-)OldVolks.com]
Sent: Thursday, May 16, 2002 8:52 AM
To: incynr8; 'OldVolks General'; 'Dan Kinsey'; 'Karl'; '3 - VB List'
Subject: RE: [VB] Dual circuit upgrade


  That's what I always felt. But by the time you buy the Brazilian 72 and
later master, the conversion spacer and a proportion valve, you'd be close
to the cost of a 67 master anyway.

Ronnie    all statements are for the amusement of those that read it, just
my opinion.

I guess it's time to go to my friends shop and have them calculate the
different pressures and how they come on. They do this on the off road cars
and have the formulas needed to do this. Again, it will take HARD numbers to
end the mystery, not just I did this, you did this, he did this theory.

