Cc: Denmiester <jolliffe(-at-)mgl.ca>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 25 Mar 2005 20:12:10 -0500
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Timing is everything

Hi Volks,

I had time today to do some pre-trip spring maintenance on the 
westfakia, so after brunch I hit the driveway to get to work. The 
westfakia has temporarily borrowed the engine from the sunroof bus, due 
to a severe oil leak. The loaner motor has been running fine for the 
past few months as the bus has seen light duty through the winter as 
our second car. Today's festivities included regular maintenance like a 
valve adjustment, oil and filter change, and so on.

After the valves were set, I checked the timing... It was off by a 
country mile!!! At idle the timing mark on the fan was way over at 1 
o'clock high!

So after some hemming and hawing... I decided to verify TDC the hard 
way. I got my son to turn the alternator while I watched through the 
the # 1 spark plug hole. Once we found TDC, I marked the zero point on 
the fan with a dab of white paint.  The new timing mark appears to be 
about 60 degrees before the original mark on the pulley. I then lit up 
the engine, and other than some clatter from the mis-adjusted valves it 
seems to be running OK.

Question:
How could the fan pulley be installed 60 degrees off? I don't have time 
to pull the engine apart this close to EveryBus, I'd rather keep it 
running as-is until I get back. This engine has a VW of Canada Reman 
tag on it, so I would expect it to be put together properly, but then 
again I really have no idea whether it has been apart since it left VW. 
  Remember that this engine ran fine when I originally purchased it with 
the sunroof bus, so the cam timing is not likely to be the problem.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
1988 Vanagon GL 8-passenger Automatic
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
