From: "Stan Wilder" <wilden1-1(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 26 Mar 2005 12:26:29 -0600
Subject: Cleaning VW Sheet metal and engine parts - long.

My first serious repairs to a Air Cooled Vanagon consisted of installing a
new cylinder head.
With just a Hayes Manual I just took my time and removed enough sheet metal
and FI parts to get down to removing the cylinder head.
About half way through I was questioning my judgment and rethinking that I
could have pulled the engine with less effort and probably saved some time.
After I had the faulty head replaced and everything I had removed carefully
cleaned in Gunk and Kerosene with a finishing touch of semi gloss black
engine paint I got everything reinstalled only to find that the opposite
head also had bad valves and needed attention.
I purchased a new head at a rip off price from a local shop and waited seven
days to get it and got stuck for another $26.00 for delivery charges. (As I
left the shop with the head I muttered, "Take a look at my baggy pants,
that's the last you'll ever see of me".
During the waiting period for the head I had removed and carefully cleaned
almost every thing on the engine that could be unbolted, unscrewed, unbent
and contained unobtainum.
Fortunately I didn't have any rust that caused problems and overall the
parts all refit properly without any special contortions.
As is standard I found rat droppings, what looked to be birds nests and a
good supply of baked on grease, oil and the lost in the bowels of hell
sparkplug that was allowed to ride for many years as a spare on top of the
cylinders.
The thing I remember most about this repair job was the large 30" x 30" low
plastic tub that I had five gallons of Kerosene and gunk mixture in. I could
almost submerge and soak most parts overnight but it all broke down to
scrubbing the parts with solvent, choir girl pads, wire brushing the caked
dirt / oil contamination off and all the while being bento over this tub
arrangement that was on the ground on a big sheet of construction plastic.
The cleaning process was much more difficult to complete than the required
mechanic work.
I can easily see how the PO bought a new engine and the VW Dealer installing
the engine just installed the filthy sheet metal over the new exchanged
engine.
All this verbiage just leads me to one thing ............. If you're going
to own and maintain a VW for any length of time it is well worth your
trouble to either remove your sheet metal and other various engine parts and
clean them thoroughly or take them to a mechanic or engine rebuilder that
can clean them properly so you never have to deal with this nasty business
again.

Stan Wilder
Engine Ceramics
214-352-4931
www.engineceramics.com
