From: "Scott Goodno" <sgoodno(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <mccomas(-at-)intercom.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 27 Mar 2005 07:33:29 -0600
Subject: RE: Wiper Problem - '70 Type 2

Hi,
Yes, I pulled the motor and assembly out yesterday and pulled all of the
linkages.  I connected the motor to a power supply per Bentley and started
it.  On the first speed position, the motor turns fairly slowly for
approximately 1/2 to 1 turn (draws a little over 2 Amps) then stops for a
moment, during which time the current draw is off the scale!  After stopping
for a moment, the shaft turns again and starts the cycle over.  On low
speed, I get a little wisp of smoke from the area of the plastic cog,
occasionally.  This behavior also exists on the high speed switch setting
but the shaft turns much faster.  Similar current draw.

I did pull the motor apart, the grease was pliable and the internals looked
ok.  I am not sure of the function of the brushes located on the plastic
cog.  I assume that they are for the parking function, right?

Anyway,  I checked out the switch against the internal connection diagram
and with a little cleaning, appears to be operating correctly.

Any advise?  Is there a good way to do checks on the motor to conclude it is
good or bad?  They are kind of pricey!

Thanks,

Scott
70 Type 2


Scott,
        Have you got the wiper assembly out of the microbus?  If you can run
it
with some test leads to a battery, with the cover off, with the linkage off
the
motor output shaft, look for sparking at the brushes.  See if gets up to
reasonable speed.  Maybe you can measure the current (amps)?  Check the
grease... may be dried near solid.  Let us know.  Glenn

----- ref ------
Date: Sat, 26 Mar 2005 15:18:59 -0600
From: "Scott Goodno" <sgoodno(-at-)earthlink.net>

I've got a wiper circuit that blows fuses and am troubleshooting the switch
and motor.  the shafts are free and not causing a lockup.  Does anyone have
an switch diagram or schematic of the internals of the wiper switch for a 70
Type 2?  The Bentley schematic just show a switch and not detail.  Also, I
measure about .6 ohms across the 2 wires that go into the motor.  I would
expect to measure a small winding resistance, but this seems strangely low.
What do you think?
