Date: Fri, 09 Aug 2002 14:23:40 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Jay Ollom <jayollom(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel Pump, do I need one?

You may or may not have a '79 2.0. Looks like you have an 1800cc with stock 
Solex carbs on it.

You won't know what size engine it is unless you take it apart and measure 
the displacement. The engine codes mean nothing because the fan shroud can 
be replaced with one from any year as can the engine block. It is what is 
inside the block that counts.

You've got a Facet pump which is the lowest common denominator in the land 
of fuel pumps.

For less than $50 you can buy a quiet rotary pump (NAPA or a farms upply 
co-op can sell you a tractor fuel pump - check the psi and gph ratings) and 
mount it under the bus in the stock fuel injection pump location. Just 
extend the wires a bit.

I would consider the addition of an oil pressure switch and a Ford inertia 
switch tot he fuel pump circuit so in case of an accident and fire the pump 
will stop pumping fuel and thus feeding a fire if you are unconscious and 
unable to remove yourself from danger. The inertia switch can be gotten 
from many of the Fords commonly found in junkyards for $10.

While you are at it replace all the fuel lines if they are more than a 
couple of years old to protect your vehicle from fuel leaks and thus fires.

Small investment in your health and the health of the bus.... Cheaper than 
insurance.


>     I have a 74' bus, with a carbureted 2 liter 79' engine in 
> it.  Somebody has mounted a fuel pump on the top of the engine.  Do I 
> really need a fuel pump?  I thought the carbs were fed by 
> gravity?  Hence, the never ending fires in the engine bay if something 
> goes wrong.  It's kind of in the way of putting an air cleaner in there 
> too.  Of course, so is the carb linkage.  I got an air cleaner that was 
> originally for a 74' not knowing I had a 79' engine, can I make that work 
> anyway?  the bus runs great as is with the fuel pump on it, incidentally.

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


