Date: Fri, 9 Aug 2002 15:53:45 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Jay Ollom <jayollom(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel Pump, do I need one?

On Fri, 9 Aug 2002, Jay Ollom wrote:

> A question for the wise,

Which lets me out, but I am gonna answer anyway :-)

>      I have a 74' bus, with a carbureted 2 liter 79' engine in it.

No, You have a '74 body with a '79 fan shroud on the engine.  You *may*
also have a 2L '79 engine, but maybe not.  As Chris said, the number on
the fan shroud is meaningless after 30 years.  You would have to inspect
the engine more closely to be sure it was (a) 2L and (b) '79.  The easiest
way is to look at your exhaust.  If the heads are "square port", then it
is probably a "good used" '79 engine that was dropped in at some point.
If they are "oval port", then it could be anything and you would have to
tear it down, as Chris said.

> Somebody has mounted a fuel pump on the top of the engine.  Do I
> really need a fuel pump? I thought the carbs were fed by gravity?

Yes, you really need a fuel pump.  The critical levels are the top of the
float bowls and the bottom of the gas tank.  If the first is above the
second (and it almost always is) you will not be able to drain the tank
with a pure gravity feed.  You don't need much pressure, but you do need
some.

> Hence, the never ending fires in the engine bay if something goes
> wrong.

Well, it is more involved than that.  During a fire you will get a gravity
feed for a while, until the level of the gas falls below the level of the
broken line, which is enough to burn the bus.  OTOH, after the fire starts
and gets hot it will boil the gas in the tank and that pressurizes the
tank and you get a force feed thru the lines, which have usually melted
off the bottom of the tank by that point, etc. etc. very very bad etc.  It
is ugly and nothing like normal operating conditions.

> It's kind of in the way of putting an air cleaner in there too.  Of
> course, so is the carb linkage.  I got an air cleaner that was
> originally for a 74' not knowing I had a 79' engine, can I make that
> work anyway?

I don't know.  Maybe you can and maybe you can't. As I look at the
pictures, I do not see anything I am familiar with from Nikki's stock '73
dual carb bus.  I think you have neither VW carbs nor linkage.  I think
they are aftermarket add-ons, like the fuel pump.

First, you need to measure the inside diameter of the air filter horns and
the outside diameter of the tops of the carbs.  If they are different, you
need to figure a way to get them to "meet and greet."

Second, you will need to relocate the pump, which should be pretty easy.
Remove the fuel pump from its current location and put it somewhere else,
off to the passneger's side or on top of the tank firewall.  Note Chris'
suggestion to buy a rotary pump as long as you have the thing apart.

Third, you need to find and install the base from a '72-'73 dual carb
engine air filter settup to get the clamp to hold the center section of
the air cleaner in place.  You may have to modify the linkage and throttle
cable at this time as well.  On Nikki's bus the cable passes to the side
of the center air filter case, close to one of the carbs (I can't remember
which one, but it does not go down the center of the engine compartment)

Lastly, you will need to find a way to install the catches that hold the
"wings" onto the top of the carbs.

This is probably more trouble than it is worth, tho.  You may well just
want to measure the outside diameter of the tops of the carbs and buy a KN
filter that will fit (note the height restrictions as well when you
measure!)

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail




