Date: Fri, 9 Aug 2002 21:15:08 -0400 (EDT)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To:  <myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] newbie repairing totaled bus

On Fri, 9 Aug 2002 myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com wrote:

> from what i have been told, the campers were from the factory, stock
> sunroof busses. they were shipped to whichever camper company did the
> conversion (westfalia, riviera, sundial...). so yes, regular bus and
> westy rear ends are the same. i may be "just a girl" and not very
> knowledgable, but this should be right. please, someone correct me if i
> am wrong.

Chris,

You are both right and wrong.  The situation is quite complicated and
varies by year and converter.  I am making this public more so that we get
comments from others who may be more familiar with the history than I but
as I understand it (and this is just what I have learned thru the years on
this list)....

Westfalia Werke is the "official" converter of Volkswagens into
recreational vehicles.  They started doing their conversions in ?1954? and
still do them, tho these days VW has established a relationship with
Winnebago and the most recent camper vans for the N.A. market are being
done by them.  Westfalia Werke (origanally independent, now owned by VW)
is still doing conversions in the European market, but they are converting
Mercedes Benz trucks (seen a new FedEx truck lately?  The "Sprinter?
yeah, that one!... now imagine it as a highroof camper with a full
shower!!!!  It's called the "Marco Polo")

Anyhow... VW and Westfalia had a "special relationship" from early on and
they bought bodiues made just for them from VW.  Until 1972, the bodies
they bought were sunroof bodies, but without the sunroof installed.  In
addition, the chassis was a commercial grade chassis, wiht the heavier
torsion bars in the back, like the VW delivery trucks and pickups.  In
1973, for one year only, Westfalia got a run of bodies with the sunroof
hole, but no tracks and no double roof.  this body gets a one-year cot to
make up for the single roof (I know this as I own a '73, but it confused
the heck out of me when I went to replace the missing cot!)  After '73, VW
made a "Wastfalia Werke only" body that had the large cutout in the rear
for the late poptop and special reinforcement welded in to compensate for
that hole.

The non-Westfalia (North American and British) conversion companies
(Sundial, California Camper, Riviera, Adventure Wagen, Sportsmobile,
Devon, etc.) did not have that same special relationship with VW.  As a
result, while they did buy the bodies they converted wholesale, they did
not have the special order status that Westfalia Werke had.  They could
and did buy regular passenger vans, with sunroof bodies, removed the
sunroof and installed their own interior.  Thru the 60's, they could and
probably did order delivery van bodies for the heavy duty torsion bars,
but after the "chicken war" tariffs were imposed in 1963 (see
http://www.aiada.org/pubs/test/ts050102.htm) VW reduced the flow of
"commercial" bodies into the U.S.  I *believe* the import of single cab
and double cabs ended in about 1970.  In addition, during that era, the
dollar, which had been *much* more valuable than the mark, lost a good
deal of its value, making German imports more expensive.

I would want to pull them apart before I bet money (I like a sure thing as
much as the next person :-), but I am pretty certain that from '68-72
Westies and non-westies are based on sunroof bodies with the heavy duty
torsion bars, but after '72, non-westy conversions are based on sunroof
bodies and westy conversions are based on custom bodies.  Also, I would
not be too certain as to the order status of the heavy duty torion bars
for US importers after the late 60s. Maybe they do have them but maybe
they were not orderable.

Anyone with any corrections/additional information would be welcome to
join in... I certainly do not know everything about the history of
VW-based campers!

Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail





