To: type2(-at-)type2.com,FullMoon(-at-)hville.net
Date: Fri, 9 Aug 2002 21:42:48 -0700
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 1970 westy~sliding door inside handle

this handle isnt even on my bus... i never even saw the bolts for it back
there til my curiosity got the better of me and i just HAD to go look.
there are 2 bolts but no rear handle. on mine, if you lift the handle up
it pulls the back end of the door in and latches. down releases it, up
pulls it in. perhaps that is why i don't have that handle. you said the
rear one looks just like the front one... mine doesnt look like that at
all. thanks, though.

thanks, but the one i need is the "T shaped" front handle... if i had
known about the rear one, i would have specified. besides, he was trying
to close the door from the inside, not open it. if i had a digicam i
would take a pic of it.

and about the plastic being brittle with time... it had no cracks in it
like the steering wheel does so i did not feel that was part of the
problem. i tried to get that feeling across by saying "i feel it would
have lasted me a while", but i guess i didnt. no, i do not believe it
would have snapped if he hadn't jerked it the way he did. as a matter of
fact, just a day or so earlier, i felt the whole bus jolt when he YANKED
it that time, too. and i remember thinking to myself... "JEEZ! ya dont
have to be so rough with it..." but he is so sensitive to my criticism
that i didnt want to make him feel like i was "yelling" at him. now i
wish i had. he is always telling me i dont have to slam the door on his
NEON... i dont think i am really slamming it... but i definitely felt the
whole bus violently jolt when he yanked that handle the other day. i even
felt the force of the yank that broke the handle...

anyway, thanks for your help and i hope to find one soon,
chris

On Fri, 9 Aug 2002 18:22:31 -0700 "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net> writes:
> Is your bus a Westy or a bus?
> The Westy uses a double-ended handle that is now unobtanium.
> The bus uses a single handle.
> Here is a bus handle on ebarf:
> http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=1755617103
> This one has the extra bracket to mount it on the back edge. But the 
> handle
> itself is the same as the front one.
> If this is the one you need, I have extra good used ones.....
> 

