From: "Hall Stuart-Lovell" <hall(-at-)dungeness.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 9 Aug 2002 20:29:38 -0700
Subject: Another perspective on reliability

I'd like to offer another perspective on the question of whether a mom 
of three with little mechanical experience should decide to make a bus 
her daily driver.... but first I have to offer a confession -- I'm 40 years 
old, the only vehicles I've ever owned have been aircooled VWs ('64, 
'65, '73 bugs, 73 Ghia, '69 and '73 buses), and I've NEVER changed 
my own oil, much less done any of the other maintenance and repair. 
And, not counting the '64 bug I rolled down a cliff and the time the '69 
bus dropped its transmission at a Rainbow Gathering at the bottom of 
a hellish road after a similarly hellish climb... I've never really been 
stranded. 

The reason I've been this lucky through the years isn't really luck... I've 
made it my business to find the good VW mechanics... they *are* out 
there. Truth be told, I've always called them Volkswagen saints... as 
over the years, some of them have been very kind to me. The true VW 
saint is unlikely to be the first mechanic you find in an area. He will not 
have the largest ad in the yellow pages. He may not be in the yellow 
pages. You find them by accosting other VW owners on the street and 
asking them who does their work. And, if they do most of their own 
work, ask them who they turn to when they're in trouble. Sooner or 
later -- it took me three tries here on the Olympic Peninsula --  the 
folks answering the question are gonna starting glowing a tad as they 
answer, probably telling you about some place a bit off the beaten 
path, where there's a guy who won't work on anything else, etc. 

Here's the next part of the secret -- Be good to your mechanic. Let him 
know that you respect him, listen to him, trust him, need him, love your 
vehicle, etc. I have delivered fresh baked cookies to more than one 
VW saint...  the right bottle to another. As you may have noticed by 
reading this list, lots of the true VW folks like to talk about their work, 
so leave a little time to talk when you pick up the vehicle. Be educated 
about it, ask the right questions... don't take up too much time when 
they're busy. You get the point. 

My granddaddy drove a 59? splittie and I grew up in the 64 bug I 
eventually rolled down the cliff. I was always into VWs...( imagine my 
surprise when I arrived at my first Dead show and found them all 
waiting there for me) and I really can't imagine wanting anything else, 
but I am simply not good at mechanical things. 

As a mom of only 1, I'd say the odds of your learning mechanicking 
while 3 kids skitter about are slim. I mean, it's hard to get out from 
under a bus fast when somebody screams... and you know they 
always scream when you're least able to leap up. And, of course, you 
need the cell phone and the AAA, but if you're a bus person, you 
should get a bus. You might try locating the saint first... he may know 
where your bus is. 

And, by the way, thanks from the bottom of my heart to all VW 
mechanics that I've known in real life and the ones I read (faithfully) on 
this list! 

Good luck and keep us posted!
Hall 
Corrina ('75 ASI camper)


-- 
     Hall and Pete Stuart-Lovell
    Dungeness Communications, Inc.
 (360) 681-2076  Fax: (360) 681-5362
http://www.DungenessCommunications.com


