From: Emmet McGovern <webmaster(-at-)beachin.net>
To: "'vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM'" <vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>,
Date: Wed, 15 Aug 2001 20:29:58 -0400
Subject: Busses by the Sea 2001 Update!  Now there's a website.

I cant believe its taken me this long to post this.  Having a child will put
the world on hold I guess.

THE WEBSITE IS FINALLY UP! http://bus.beachin.net  All the info including
directions and pics are there.

If any of the attendees from last year have pics of last years event please
email me the url, I'd like to link back to you.

I'll be adding info to the site regularly as I answer more questions from
people that I forgot to include.  Please remember to email me if you are
planning on attending so I can keep the Campgrounds updated.
Also, if anyone would like to help out I'll need a few hands to haul wood
for the Bonfire on Assateaque Island Saturday night.  Here's the info one
more time.


Busses by the Sea 2001

When - September 14,15,16
Where - Frontier Town Campgrounds  Ocean City Maryland
http://www.frontiertown.com/
How Much - $21 a night, reservations are NOT needed

What going on ?

Friday - Arrive early, get the good camp spot, kick back with a cool one and
greet the new arrivals
Saturday - Pot Luck Dinner followed by a 5 mile carabus to Assateaque Island
for  wild pony sightings and a  bonfire on the beach.
http://www.nps.gov/asis/
Sunday - Big Breakfast and sad farewells

Things to do while your here.
Frontier town is a western themed campground.  If ever there was a family
bus event, this is it.  There is a free water park, playgrounds, canoe
rentals, nature trails, Ocean City shopping, and a great beach and ocean to
play in.

What to bring - Besides your usual arsenal of camping gear, be sure to
bring...

Firewood
Bug spray
Suntan Lotion
Bathing Suit
Firewood
Canoe or Kayak
Bicycles
Fishin' Poles
Flip Flops (nobody wears shoes around here :) )

All your tasty beverages and pets are also welcome!




feel free to email me with any questions
Emmet

PS.  I DARE ANY OF YOU FULL MOONERS TO SHOW UP!!!!!

