From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 3 Mar 2002 19:32:02 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] 12v gas gauge...

My understanding is that neither the gas gauge nor the gas tank sender
are voltage specific. To see what is going on you need to look first
at the gas tank sender, which is essentially a rheostat a bit like a
household dimmer switch. The float in the tank, the level of which
depends on the level of gas in the tank, touches one of many
electrical contacts and in that way kind of sets the length of the
path (back to ground) the current must travel and therefore the
resistance to that travel. This is like you turning the knob on the
dimmer switch, increasing or decreasing the length of resistor current
must travel on its way to the dining room light. If the tank is full
and the float near the top, then the path is short and the resistance
low. The opposite is true when the float is near the bottom of the
tank, then the path is long and the resistance high. It is the gas
gauge that really sends the current to the gas tank "sender", and
compares (I think, here's where I get a bit muddled) how much work it
is to send current through the gas tank sender versus just letting it
go straight from the gauge to ground. It is the comparison between the
two paths that gives the reading on the gas gauge, and the gauge can
make the same comparison 6V, 12V, 14V or whatever your generator is
putting out at that moment.
I am sure my terminology is all wrong and maybe some of my ideas too,
and someone will probably be along shortly to correct them, but that
is my understanding of how it works, and why you can grab any working
gas gauge that fits in the hole in the dash (which means it probably
will be VDO) and it will be just fine. Remember the lamps in the gauge
though, these would need to be 12V, but they fit in the 6V sockets
just fine.

----- Original Message -----
From: "TJ Stallone" <theos1(-at-)optonline.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Sunday, March 03, 2002 10:17 AM
Subject: [VB] 12v gas gauge...


Id like to start out by thanking Karl for the sending unit he gave me!
It sure helped a lot. Using that sender I was able to get my gas gauge
working but it's a 6v gauge and I really don't like using the voltage
drop units. Does anyone know a place to get a new or used 12v gauge
that
works with a stock sender? I have seen some new ones for sale but they
require a VDO sender that doesn't look stock to me. Any suggestions?
Thanks!
TJ


