Date: Fri, 1 Dec 2006 15:44:54 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>, kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] plastic brake hose 76 bus

ok guys these were my findings today....
  i called several hydraulic hose places today in my area and around and they all told me that there is not a teflon hose or hydraulic hose that is made for brake fluid and/or will not work for brake fluid.... the hydraulic oil is not based as the same as brake fluid....
  they told me the only one they had(hose) still did not have the inside tubing that would handle brake fluids only hydraulic oils....
   
  the one guy told me now you can listen to whomever you want to but i been doing this for over 20 years and have had this same question for brake fluids at least once a year from someone...
   
  he said he wished that all those misinformed would get more informed...
   
  real country like down home kinda sounding fellow and owner of hydraulic shop here in town.
   
  his opinion was to get some blue braided brake hose and use a piece of the plastic line that is already there and clamp it off on both ends with the plastic....
   
  he said the blue braided brake line was made for brake fluid and  thats that...
  said you have to have a special license to even make brake lines etc...sooooooooooo
   
  on that note... i wont be using no hydraulic line... he said yeah you can use it(hydraulic line) but it wont last no more than 2 months if that?? cause it will still break down in the tube cause the inner is not withstandable against the brake fluid...
   
  soooooooooooooooooooooooo back to the drawing board trying to find the right type of plastic hose.... so i can have brakes by the end of the weekend....
   
  thiings are not looking up right now for me the way it is going...whats new though....? same old same ole....
   
  thanks
  chai

"Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net> wrote:
  On Fri, 1 Dec 2006, Kevin H. Roberts wrote:

> I have to chime in on this one. The last sales job I had was working for an industrial hose distributor. I even used to sell those big Teflon lined hoses that they use on tanker trucks that haul dangerous chemicals. (I loved those sales because they were over $20 a foot.) Any reputable hose supplier will be able to tell you exactly what chemicals are acceptable for a particular hose. They keep track of MSDS's on chemicals and manufacturer's recommendations. It's a big liability issue. I know a truck driver who was is partially blind because he didn't listen to those recommendations. Cheers....KR

ABSOLUTELY they always ask whay yoou plan on using it for. PSI, etc.

Bob




                                                          1976 HighTop 
  1968 Beetle 
