From: "Joseph Ames Jr" <joe.ames(-at-)comcast.net>
To: "'Anymouse'" <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 6 Dec 2006 17:37:48 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] '78 won't turn over - Ft Belvoir VA

1.  Sounds like you've got a really dirty/loose/corroded battery
connection somewhere, probably in the ground wire since you're
connecting directly to the positive.

2.  Could be the solenoid since they act up enough.  Try shorting it out
with a big wrench to bridge the battery post and the starter motor hot
wire; when you do it right, the starter will turn to be sure you're in
neutral and have the brake applied!

3.  Push starting will get you home, but watch the idle speed at lights
or stop signs or on the Parkway.  The FI will draw more juice than the
alternator can provide at low RPMs; without a good battery in the
circuit, you might stall.

BTDT!
Joe
1978 Westy under restoration


From the desk of:
Joseph Ames Jr, MBA, MS
Malvern (Philadelphia), Pennsylvania
Site of the Paoli Massacre, 9/20/1777




-----Original Message-----
From: Anymouse [mailto:honeybus(-at-)gmail.com]
Sent: Wednesday, December 06, 2006 5:08 PM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] '78 won't turn over - Ft Belvoir VA


For the past week, the '78 FI stick 2.0 liter USA Westy was struggling
to
start.  It got worse and worse, until this afternoon, it was almost
choking
itself to get some rotations.  I almost got caught at the gas pumps on
Ft
Belvoir Virginia.

Well, it is now across from the chapel on Ft Belvoir, and it just will
not
turn over, i. e., the engine will not rotate.

I tried a battery pack, but that did absolutely zilch.  I thought it was
because the portable  battery  pack was neglected and low on charge.

I called the wife and I tried to jump the '78 with jumper cables.
Nothing.
The VW (engine) would not rotate.

Now here is the FIRST HINT that may give some ideas: I could NOT
generate a
spark when scraping the ground jumper cable on notorious good ground
spots
on the VW.  Wife's positive post battery cable attached to the VW
battery
positive post, and the wife's negative cable attached to a VW ground
away
from the battery = NOTHING!!

I could click the VW side jumper cables together while the other sides
were
attached to other car, and get fourth of July sparks!!  But when I
attached
the positive cable to the VW battery terminal, and the negative able to
the
VW ground, I get nothing.  Not even a confirmation spark.

All this while the electrical hot air fan is blowing in the engine bay,
so I
know I have enough of a circuit to run the basics.

SECOND HINT: My cheater wire from the starter solenoid to the engine
compartment would get a decent spark when I pressed the bare end to the
positive battery terminal, but I got NO activity from the starter.  No
sound
of the solenoid kicking over....

Wait a minute!!  Could that be it!!  My starter solenoid went South!!  I
have a spare starter/solenoid, so should I do a swap..  I would do this
at
home for Sh!^s and Giggles, but the VW is dead on a military base.

If it is the solenoid, can I just push start it and drive home without
any
problem??

And if it IS the starter solenoid, why couldn't I get a spark from the
jumper cable grounding??

Opinions...???,,,,????

--
Anymouse sends
