Date: Fri, 18 Nov 2005 20:20:59 -0600 (CST)
From: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: new battery cable

On Fri, 18 Nov 2005, Kevin Guarnotta wrote:
> I have been thinking of replacing the cable from the starter to the
> battery. [...]  As per Matt's recommendations I was going to get the
> 2/0 gauge.

Just plain 2 gauge should be plenty.  It will have about 25% less
voltage drop than the stock cable.  2/0 gauge will be even better
at 63% less voltage drop than stock, but will be harder to work with.

> I'm also going to see if they sell the battery clamps, I'll try to
> get the kind that you solder on. If they don't carry them-who does?

I would try, in approximately this order:

1.  The welding supply place where you're getting the welding cable.
     You never know...
2.  NAPA.  They carry tractor and big-truck parts and those vehicles
     sometimes need special battery cables, so they might carry the
     terminal ends.
3.  Other FLAPS besides NAPA.
4.  A repair shop that works on big trucks and/or tractors.
5.  An electrical supply house.  (_Not_ Home Depot, etc.)

You have a couple of options besides online ordering if the above doesn't
pan out.  You can put a lug on _both_ ends of the battery cable.  Your
FLAPS will sell a battery terminal clamp that has a stud and wing nut on
it.  Put your lug over the stud and replace the wing nut with a nyloc
nut and a washer and it's a reasonable battery terminal.  Note that some
of these have a small raised area of lead around the stud - see how much
contact you're actually getting between the lead and the lug.  If it's
not much, you might sand or file down the lead to provide a wide, flat
surface for the lug to sit on.

Another option is a Japanese-style battery terminal.  These are stamped
steel and wrap around the battery terminal and tighten with a bolt, sort
of like a hose clamp.  Sometimes you can find these at the FLAPS and
they have a crimp connection to the battery cable - usually a couple of
"wings" sticking up from the terminal that can be bent down over the
cable.

Matt Roberds
