From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <harry.houck(-at-)comcast.net>, <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>, "'Vintage List'"
Date: Fri, 18 Nov 2005 23:22:52 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] new battery cable

Thanks for the tip...but I just got back from the welder's supply-who sent
me over to a battery shop.

The welder's supply guy recommended against the 2/0 wire-saying it was way
too thick, he recommended the 1/0 gauge wire. So I got some of that. He also
suggested the marine clamps for the battery post. This way you put lugs on
either end of the cable, then at the battery you use the screw-on terminal
of the marine clamp. Sounded like a good idea to me. He is actually a board
member of a local auto museum, and involved in custom and resto work on old
vehicles himself-so I figured he had some idea of what he was talking about.

He didn't have the lugs in stock that have the solder plugs in them, so he
sent me to a battery shop a few blocks away.

Turns out this is the last battery maker in New England, pretty cool place,
definitely been around awhile.

They had welding cable in stock(I thought they would only have battery
cable). They had the lugs with the solder plugs in stock, but only for 1
gauge wire. So I thought I would just get enough stuff to make it with
either set-up(1 gauge or 1/0 gauge). 

So now I have the marine clamps, heavy wall lugs with the solder chips, 5'
of 1/0 gauge wire and 5' of 1 gauge wire. 

The coolest part of the battery place-they told me about this thing called
an Orpin switch. It is a series Parallel switch, which works as such...when
you try to start up, it kicks over a solenoid over so you get 12V of power,
otherwise you get just 6V. You hook it up to two 6V batteries, or if you
want they can make a custom battery for you. This custom battery is
basically a 12V battery that is converted in to 2 6V batteries. Sounds
really amazing. Cost-about $150 for the battery and $180 for the switch...I
may have the prices reversed...not sure. 

They said there is only one guy making the switches, na dhe is in
California, although the spec/advertising sheet they gave me indicates North
Carolina.

-kevin
'71 sqbk
'65 kombi
somerville, ma 

-----Original Message-----
From: harry.houck(-at-)comcast.net [mailto:harry.houck(-at-)comcast.net] 
Sent: Friday, November 18, 2005 10:54 AM
To: Kevin Guarnotta; mattroberds(-at-)cox.net; 'Vintage List'
Subject: Re: [VB] new battery cable

Kevin,
   I suggest recyling a German battery cable from a mid-80's BMW. Some
models had the battery in the trunk with an 11 foot postive battery cable
that has a half inch diameter of stranded copper. I've got about a dozen of
'em for EV and other projects. I could ship you one for the price of a good
six pack of beer. 
   If you find one in a salvage yard locally make sure the battery end is
clean and uncorroded. Unbolt the front end from the firewall and push the
big oval rubber grommet into the fenderwell with a BFscrewdriver. Remove the
glove box and kick panel, pull the door seal to peel back the carpeting. If
you don't need 11', cut it near the glove box and pull it out of the trunk.
Otherwise you have to unsnake the front end that looks like a battery post
through the body. It's a pretty nice part, not as flexible as welding cable,
but the same amount of copper and you won't have to stake it down as much. 

 -Harry



> I have been thinking of replacing the cable from the starter to the
battery.
> I'm going to pick up some welding cable-sounds like pretty nice stuff(very
> flexible, conducts well). 
