Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2005 01:19:38 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Science needed.

> From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
> Date: Sat, 19 Nov 2005 12:23:19 -0800
>
> At about about 3600 rpm as shown on my scope, my accelerometer shows a
> vibration of about 180hz. That is about 3 times the engine rotation
> speed of 60 rps. The vibration only grows above about 3000 rpm.   The
> vibration is synchronized with the engine rotation.

I'm assuming this is with the transmission in neutral?  You might put a
cinder block on the clutch pedal to almost totally disconnect the
transmission and see if the vibration is still there - maybe it's coming
from the transmission instead.  Or maybe something like you lost a
spring out of a coil-spring (not diaphragm) pressure plate which
miraculously hasn't caused mayhem in the bell housing but is causing an
imbalance.

The "Automotive Handbook" by Bosch goes into some of the theory of how a
crankshaft is balanced.  Pages 396-403 in the 5th edition.  To cut to
the chase, a 4-cylinder boxer has zero free forces of the 1st and 2nd
orders and zero free moments of the 1st order.  (There are more orders
but they claim that they are usually so small you can forget them.)  The
boxer has free moments of the second order equal to

2 *
oscillating mass *
distance from crank center to rod center *
rotational speed squared *
(distance from crank center to rod center / rod length) *
cosine (2*crank angle)

I don't immediately see a 3 falling out of that.  A 2 or a 4 (or an
0.5), OK, but not a 3.

Have you tried pulling one plug wire at a time to see if each cylinder
is pulling its own weight?  I think it would be hard to do this _and_
your vibration measurements as the one dead cylinder would throw the
measurements off, but maybe you can get a clue that way.

Later you wrote:

>When I get my LabView equipment I will be able to do a pretty fancy
>set up with software filters, FFT etc.

Once you spend a week getting the LabView software to play with the
NI hardware, you can.  (You better have administrator rights on your
Windows box.  You'll need them just to get some of your virtual
instruments to compile.)

Then you have to hope that the power supply in the hardware doesn't pop
after about two hours total time on the hardware, the night before a
demo for the customer.  You can do what I did and hack in a PC power
supply to get the demo off, but be prepared to pay the $980 flat rate
repair fee (on a $3000 box) so they can replace the $50 power supply
module that actually failed.

Then you have to hope that the firmware update that NI tech support
absolutely insists you need to apply doesn't make your box worse instead
of better.

Can you tell I'm slightly annoyed at National Instruments?  :)

Matt Roberds
