From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'George Lyle'" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Cc: "'VintageBus list'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 21 Nov 2005 17:46:57 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Re: new battery cable

I have not measured it, I just figured while replacing the cable I might as
well upgrade/increase the thickness of the cable. I used 1 gauge welding
cable, which is actually quite flexible. As for the whole in the firewall-it
did not fit through the original grommet, but the original grommet was
pretty dried out, so I got a new one at my local hardware store.

I also noticed the wire from the starter to the generator had a slice in it
that had been patched with electrical tape. I think I did this a few years
ago-with the intent of replacing the wire when I got to it. I forgot, but
replaced that today. I used 8 gauge red wire, which I striped black with a
Sharpie. I heat wrapped the connections to keep them clean. As for removing
it-it is bound to another wire, that according to the wiring diagram goes
from the regulator to the bright light indicator in the speedometer. Not
sure why...but as the are kind of bound together-I'm going to leave the
original generator-to-starter cable.

I still get a little glow on the speedo when I turn on my lights. So I think
the last wire to check is the wire from the starter to the fuse box, the
main red power line.

-kevin
'71 sqbk
'65 kombi
somerville, ma 

-----Original Message-----
From: George Lyle [mailto:glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com] 
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: new battery cable



On Fri, 18 Nov 2005, Kevin Guarnotta wrote:

> Just plain 2 gauge should be plenty.  It will have about 25% less
> voltage drop than the stock cable.  2/0 gauge will be even better
> at 63% less voltage drop than stock, but will be harder to work with.

Has anyone actually measured the voltage drop across the cable?  If the
voltage drop is small with the stock cable I don't see how reducing it by
25% or even 63% will make much difference.

The larger cables are thicker
and stiffer and much harder to run through the hole in the body.  In
addition, the stiffness is harder on the insulating grommets that I hope
folks are using around them.  You _really_ don't want the unfused battery
cable to find ground!

If I was trying to start a big block Chevy from a trunk mounted battery I
would worry about the cable size, but turning a VW with a run of only a
few feet the stock size should work fine.

George
