Date: Tue, 17 Feb 2004 12:05:03 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: voltage regulator toasted UPDATE

At 10:20 AM 02/16/2004, you wrote:
>  there are 3 wires going from
>the VR to the ALT. Since the termination point of the 3 wires at the
>ALT is covered by a plate on the front (FIF), how do I check the wiring
>without removing the ALT to expose the wiring?

IMS, that plate requires removal of but a few 8mm nuts. Yes, the triple 
wire set must be inspected and replaced if problems are found. A few times 
I have had to make up a new set of wires and terminals due to overheating 
primarily caused by resistance elsewhere like the main battery cables. Heat 
cycling over time makes the terminals hard and brittle and they loose their 
grip and make poor contact. If you try to pinch them for a tighter fit, 
they don't bend but snap and break. This can be anticipated by a very dark 
age patina.

>I read the Bentley section on testing the ALT in-vehicle, and I don't
>own, nor do I have access to, all 3 of the different metering
>components that need to be in-series to collect the readings as
>described. I have a single multi-meter. From the description in the
>Bentley, that is insufficient to qualify the charging system.

True, specific equipment is required. You either buy the equipment and 
learn how to use it or hire someone with the equipment and knowledge. Those 
are the only 2 options I know of to ensure no money is wasted on unneeded 
parts.

Otherwise, I recall very few instances of a problem with any electrical 
part that did not SHOW evidence of excess heat under a hand glass. The 
presence of rosin around solder is a dead giveaway. Those joints were 
bright and clean when produced and no rosin can weep out of the solder 
unless overheated. This is true of all quality parts, like German 
production. Many times the evidence is clear as mud to the near blind. You 
just got to open up that relay or ECU and get the eye/light tech in play on 
the otherwise unseeable/unknowable conditions. Common on failed components 
is charred evidence on items with heat sinks incorporated like triodes and 
diodes and such. I have yet to bench test any electrical item and found it 
foul without also being able to see with a hand glass evidence of heat 
stress. I can even see the age patina on bulb elements.

>  So, if I
>can't test it, I can either drive the bus to somone who can, or pull
>the ALT out and have it tested. I thought knowingly driving the bus
>when it was in a "known broken" state was bad juju and I'd bust a few
>knuckles instead.

Rule of thumb this is true. However, in this case you  can just pull the 
dash bulb or disconnect the terminals at the regulator and insulate them. 
Either will prevent activation of the alternator. Then if you have a fully 
charged battery you can drive up to a hundred miles between charges if not 
using lights or blowers.

>You suggested that I just open the phone book to find
>someone to test the ALT. There aren't 100 in Portland; the one Bosch
>parts place that I found is ACVW supportive but they don't test.

All NAPA stores have test facilities and Bosch parts. They only stock a few 
items but if they want they can special order anything in the Bosch line. 
How many NAPA's are there in greater Portland??


>I asked if I fried another VR although the engine wasn't started, but
>the electricals were completed. I'd like to know if I need to buy
>another one when I'm out getting the ALT tested.

Take both for testing. Unless you have a dead short, it should be just 
fine. Pull the cover, inspect with a hand glass, if you see no evidence of 
heat stress you have about a 99%+ chance of no problems there.


>You mentioned as a part of the great Wells -v- Bosch debate that
>sometimes seemingly unrelated breakdowns cause failures. I took that to
>mean that there can be a short in one subsystem that manifests itself
>in a completely unrelated system.

No, a fault in a circuit can fry something else WITHIN that circuit. If 2 
circuits are isolated one can't damage the other. This is why the battery 
cables are so important along with the main feeds and grounds elsewhere. 
Stresses there can affect all circuits as they are the source and terminus 
of all circuits therefore WITHIN all circuits.

>It was insight into that statement
>that I was seeking. I guess you thought I asked for a wrist slapping.
>Now that you've gotten that out of your system, either add value or
>don't respond.

Though I might respond to any submittal, my responses are always directed 
toward ANYONE who might have similar symptoms, and particularly the types 
of individuals who have very little knowledge/experience, even if I know 
the person asking the question is not a novice. I respond to questions from 
someone, but reply as best I can to everyone.
