Date: Wed, 18 Feb 2004 17:01:49 -0500 (EST)
From: "Jamie Rivers" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: <jim64kombi(-at-)braindrained.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Hard to get reverse

Jim

Can you shift into reverse with the engine not running?

what I am thinking might be the problem is the input shaft is spinning
when you have your foot on the clutch. It should not be.

Selecting forward gears would be ok as the syncro allow them to engage
even though the shaft is spinning.
Selecting reverse is hard as there is no syncro and the gears will not
mesh until that shaft stops spinning.

If you clutch plate is NOT slipping when you have your foot on the clutch
pedal because the clearance between the pressure plate and flywheel is too
tight would cause the input shaft to continue to spin

The clutch disk might be warped slightly,

The pressure plate may have a spring out of it,,

The gland nut bearing might be too tight, then it will grab the shaft and
it will continue to spin.

Tighten up the clutch adjusting nut, see if that changes anything,,, less
free play at the pedal will allow more travel at the pressure plate

You mentioned the clutch lever is longer than stock.  If that is the lever
outside the bellhousing,, then it takes more pedal movement to operate the
pressure plate.
If that is the lever forks inside the bellhousing,, my thinking must be
wrong... as that being longer would give you more pressure plate movement.

Hope that Helps
BTW,, why are you asking the type2list about a '64 problem,, you should
try the vintagebus list

What I said applies to all aircooled ...

Jamie Rivers


Jim Linesch wrote:
>
> I recently purchased my '64 and I cannot get it into reverse when it's
> cold (without major grinding).  After driving for at least 15 minutes I
> can work reverse, if I'm really careful.  Warm up in the driveway
> doesn't help.  I had a local mechanic (VW spec.) look at it, and he felt
> that both the clutch and the trans were in good shape.  The only clue he
> offered was that the clutch lever is longer than stock.  I have replaced
> the clutch cable and adjusted properly.  Clutch does not slip.  Trans
> does not pop out of any gears.  Anyone have any ideas?
