Date: Wed, 18 Feb 2004 15:53:03 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: voltage regulator toasted UPDATE

I thought my initial mail was too verbose to begin with for those that
had little interest. We all know how to operate the delete button, I'll
expect the disinterested to exercise that freedom. Anyway...
 
> What is the heritage of your meter?? What reading is shown just
holding the probes in contact??

It's practically new, if that's what you mean by heritage. If you mean
who made it, I don't know, its not in front of me. When the probes are
held in contact the reading is 0.00. The readings I got was at the
lowest resistance setting on the dial.

> If you can add to that, the terminals do not show a dark age patina  

Not especially dark, no. I scraped them a touch after the first set of
testing, but that had no effect on the readings.

> they grip firmly and there is no evidence of insulation melting or
arkening and no corrosion at all then, yes, that part of the inspection
is  complete. 

They grip fine. The triple plug is fine. The wire insulation looks very
good. 

> If you don't state you have verified these things should I always
assume you did or didn't? Get detailed and specific about these many
mundane steps in a complete inspection procedure.

fair enough. There's a careful balance between TMI and insufficient
data. I'll find it eventually.

> The easy way to resolve this issue with the bulb circuit is to
replace the old bulb to rule out resistance in the filament. The
contacts in the bulb holder could be foul and just a wiggle might prove
the culprit. Did you do this?? You can remove the bulb and test the
ohms through it and compare to a new bulb and perhaps CONFIRM THE
CULPRIT or at least rule out a very easy thing that is quick and easy
to do, and is known to cause poor charging. That is why it was offered
as one of the FIRST steps to charging system issues. With the bulb out,
then you can confirm the blue wire ohms, then turn on the key and
confirm battery voltage for the bulb feed.

No, I didn't do that. My analysis of the blue wire and all it
represented was cut short by body pain and pouring rain. I focused on
the 3 wires. I'll do this next. Should I presume in your description
that the ALT, VR and battery are all connected?

> If water at a connection caused a short, you would expect to see some
staining from the evaporated water along with evidence of corrosion or
excess heat. Of course fix the seal but very low probability it had
anything to do with your issues unless there is further evidence as
above described.

I think water entered the ALT itself, not just a connection. The inside
of the ALT, once removed, didn't have any shiny brass inside that I
could see. Lots of dark. I don't know if I could see corrosion or
excessive heat evidence with my limited exposure to such things. I
figured a pool of water directly above an electrical appliance was
risky, and the electrical smell I caught wind of just after backing up
the night the GEN light lit (I thought it was the car next to me that
was having car troubles at the time), now seems relevant.
I had the ALT tested at NAPA and they couldn't get a reading on it.
Prior to asking questions about where to test it, I read an old email
thread about someone getting false-negative tests at the FLAPS and
getting an "its fine" from some VW specialty shop. That's why I was
concerned about the FLAPS. When the VW parts place said to go there, I
took that as a positive testimonial to the reliability of their tests.
Thanks for your time, Tim. I appreciate it--
Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR 
1972 westy (hapy)
