From: "maduncledave" <maduncledave(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <visket(-at-)hotmail.com>
Date: Wed, 18 Feb 2004 21:40:32 -0500
Subject: irt: Single Port manifolds

Mr. Visket said:
>The bug, er.. bus was built to 1776cc (69*90.5) on single-port heads. PO had
a PICT-30 re-jetted and re-mounted. Now, the plugs look OK, and we're
>running smooth up to 4K. We're not burning holes in pistons, but I would like
to get some more carb on that motor.

>What are my options keeping the SP heads? Any options that can use the stock
manifold? What options for a 2-bbl? And dual carb options? Both Mr. Kadron
>and Mr. Hayden say getting SP Kadron manifolds are going to be quite
difficult. (Anyone have a set?)

I sez:  Hi there.  Let me make sure I've got this straight.  You've got a good
running 1776 Singleport in the bus. Appears to be jetted correctly, and you
want to change a perfectly good setup?  I dunno man, if it ain't broke, don't
fix it.  It's a bus, not a bug, ghia or 181.  If you want "fast" get a minivan
or suv and bee like the drones.  Let the bus be a bus.  Singleport heads don't
seem to crack at the plug hole like dual ports.  The seat of the pants
engineers all seem to agree that singleport heads run cooler.  You'd want to
go ahead and CC the combustion chambers and re-calculate the compression
ratio.  The PICT30 is a good basic reliable carb.  Do a search in the archive
for tales of the Weber Progressive.   Kadrons are ok carbs but mating them to
a SP manifold would be umm, interesting.

Your bus though.

If you do decide to go ahead and frankenswap, I'd be interested in the Pict30,
since I'm slowly building a 1776 SP.  Multi-barrelled and singleport don't
seem to go together well.

Multicarbed is a different story (nightmare?).

I'd be more inclined to find a pair of carbs and cables off a BMW R-80
motorcycle, build a pair of intakes, and dual carb it.  The Bings work very
well on the R-80 and I believe would do well on an ACVW as well.  Jetting
should be very close too.  The cables have the throttle opening adjustment for
balancing.  Bings are rugged, reliable, easy to work on, and don't seem to
need to be worked on much.  The engine room in a bus has room to spare for
this setup.  I've been trying for a couple years to talk a buddy of mine out
of his totalled R-80 to put the engine/tranny in my old R69S.  The carbs would
go into a bus, because I want to try Mikuni flat slides on the bike.  Before I
get too detailed, I might want to remember that this is the Bus list, not the
airhead BMW list....

I'm not trying to flame you, it's your bus, do what you want to it.  I just
wonder at times when someone takes a good running setup and changes it in the
name of more everything.

Mad Uncle Dave, wrench of ill repute and proud member of the Full Moon Bus
Club
