From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "DurocShark" <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, "Type2List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 3 Feb 2008 08:20:09 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Troubleshooting Day

Don said:


 Symptoms:
Built up over time. Started out occasional misfire only at highway
speeds when I goosed the throttle. Degraded into misfiring as soon as the
bus is warm. Got to the point where when I got off the freeway it wouldn't
idle or even let me keep it idling with the throttle. Had to wait 2-3
minutes before it would start again. During cranking I would get a strong
odor of gasoline.

Troubleshooting so far:
Because of my commute I've been running the tank down close to empty.
So my immediate thought was gunk in the filter. Yep, filter was pretty dirty
so I replaced it. No change. Filled up the tank and added gas dryer. No
change. Replaced dist, points, condensor (my loaded spare).
No change. Timing and dwell spot on. AFM tracks still solid, no wear
through. No cracks in S boot, ends are sealed. Torque checked on intakes.
Wiring harness is still solid though I haven't pulled it
completely yet. But I can tug and wiggle all over at idle and not get
it to miss.

Things still to do:
Because it seems temp/time related, at least a bit, I'm going to swap
the coil with my spare and stick something up to act as a heat shield
for the fuel pump and lines. If neither of those get me anywhere I'll
do a compression check cold and warm. If that's ok I'll start pulling
the injectors and looking for leakers. Still nothing, then I'll pull
the wiring harness completely.

The gas smell has me thinking I'm getting fuel. Fuel lines from the
tank to the fuel rail are all still good and pliable. I think I
eliminated blockage in the tank from the list due to the full tank and
my driving style. (heh) Anybody have something else I can add to my list? No
fuel pressure gauge (though I think I need to order one).

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------

You forgot about temp sensor II!!!!

Play with it FIRST.

Loosen and retighten it. Corrosion on the threads will give you the exact
systems you have.

When was the last time it was replaced?

http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=0280130012

$18 well spent on a 'maintenace' item.
