Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2008 17:46:30 -0500
To: <boulderorganic(-at-)comcast.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] contemplating a 1981 vanagon westfalia - HELP!

Hi Mark,

Vanagons are nice. My parents own three. Me, I have a baywindow  
camper but the v'gon gets more enticing every time I drive it. They  
ride nice, they have more space inside and are built safer than a  
baywindow.

The aircooled powerplant is adequate. If you look after it and don't  
abuse it, it will provide years of cost-effective transportation and  
many memorable camping experiences. It's no muscle-car, but it will  
get you where you need to go. If you do abuse it, it will also  
provide memorable camping experiences, but generally not the kind of  
memories we cherish. I would recommend a cylinder head temp gauge on  
it to help monitor the engine's stress level. If you see the temps  
heading over 450, slow down and the temps will quickly drop. On  
mountain passes you will probably wind up down in third or possibly  
even second gear from time to time. As long as you don't lug the  
engine and don't overheat the heads you won't have a problem.

Be sure to do a compression check on the engine before you buy to  
ensure that it is in good shape. Ideally you want to see more than  
120PSI on all 4 cylinders. Anything below 90psi indicates that some  
engine repair work will be required.

The most common complaint I hear about older vanagons is the rusting  
out of the fuel tank. Be sure to take a close look at the tank and  
the vent lines. And while you're looking at the fuel system, be sure  
to replace ALL the rubber fuel lines ASAP, unless you can verify that  
the PO has done this recently.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com


> On 5-Feb-08, at 12:01 PM, boulderorganic wrote:


I'm contemplating purchasing a 1981 Vanagon Westfalia, my first venture
into the vanagon world.  I live in Colorado and plan to do a lot of
camping up in the mountains, driving over mountain passes.  The 1981 has
a 67 hp power plant.  The vanagon is all original, pristine inside and
very clean outside, except for oxidation of the paint.  I have too kids
and take along a lot of gear.  Am I insane for considering this vehicle
given the small engine?  I have no problem going slow, but I'm still
concerned about overheating and damage to the engine.

I'm looking at the vanagon tomorrow and would like some input before I
take the plunge.  Could anyone offer some advice?  Should I or should I
not?
