From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 15 Mar 2003 08:56:01 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] 1776 aspirations

  Thanks to all for the great answers!
  This is the "patriotic" bus. I call it "E Pluri-Bus", because I found it
on eBay, and by the time I got it, I knew I definitely had busses, plural.
Now, with the 1776 engine, and considering the spirit of the times, it is
definitely the patriotic bus..."E Pluri-Bus"!
  This is my third '71 in a fleet of four (Actually, there's a fifth, but it
doesn't count without an engine!)
...Hey, don't laugh! I don't drink, smoke, dope or gamble, and these are my
only "pets" now! LOL. Besides, I had to rescue all of these great buses that
I could.
  Now my driveway is full! This is the second one I've gotten with no or
blown engines. But the bodies on both were great, and the price was
definitely right.
  It's nice, because in California, there's no smog for up to '73, and so I
can unscrupulously modify if I like, and it is still pretty simple with an
upright engine, but I do also have the benefit of disc brakes.
  Also, whatever I buy for one could probably be used for all three, so it
made sense to set aside a parts stash. I don't show or anything.. I just
wanted to know that we'd have buses for a long time in the future (Hubby and
I think that they are the worlds' most perfect vehicle), and I was afraid
(with the way that they're disappearing), that I would not be able to find
an affordable one to buy five or six years from now if I needed another one.
I hate to think that one of my '71's would ever get crashed, but it could
happen, and I always want to have at least two good using buses. I am
thinking possibly to restore one completely, but as yet it doesn't seem that
it would be a good investment for the money spent. The '71 was well-liked,
but not exactly a classic.
  The '78 cheapie that I picked up awhile back is going to be the "beater
bus" when we finally get this engine back in. All that remains to do is to
replace the fuel lines and reattach the new engine mounts. We were going to
do that this weekend, but it's raining, so..  :0(
