Date: Sat, 15 Mar 2003 17:29:28 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: ncbus <macbus(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: EveryBus '03 Chilli and Side-dish contest!

Below is a treatise on the EB Chilli and side-dish cook-off from Mad 
Uncle Dave. For more info on the cook-off contact M.U.D at 
spl(-at-)gothespammers.net

For more info on EveryBus 2003 visit www.everybus.com


From: Mad Uncle Dave


Oh, man - we gotta have rules? With 3 weeks to go, I guess it's time to
decide how the annual Everybus Chili  cookoff and world hunger abatement
project is "supposed" to go.  Again this year, 2 classes, meat and meatless.
Hot isn't the grail.  Flavor,  consistency, presentation, aroma and
aftertaste are what wins the favor of  the judges.  Last year one entry was
presented exceptionally well and that  alone would have won the 
contest except for
a wonderful smoky pepper that  blew the judges away!  You can make it
there that day, or you can make it ahead of time.  Depends on  how your chili
likes to be eaten.  A couple years ago I spent much of  Saturday going
around helping folks cut up ingredients and whatever I could  to help them be
ready in time.  If you want to cook it there, it's perfectly  ok to have your
ingredients cut up beforehand.  If you cook it ahead of time,  that's
fine, again I would think it depends if your recipe prefers to be  served
"fresh" or "aged".  I make one request.  Last year I inadvertently sampled a
chili with an  ingredient I am allergic to and had to run around the corner
and 'uneat' the  chili.  I ask that entries have a list of ingredients so
others are spared a  similar indignity.   Don't care how much of what is
there, just that it's  there.  I apologize for this inconvenience but I hope
this is not  unreasonable to ask.  If you don't feel that you can make world
class chili, don't fret it.  This  year there is also an additional
category, Best Side Dish.  What goes well  with chili?  There will be prizes (I
think) and with it goes the prestige of being "the  best of the best" in the
world of Everybus Chili.  Frank Biffath watch yer  back, they're gunnin' for
ya!  Seeya there  Mad Uncle Dave  On Friday 14 March 2003 12:18 pm,
someone wrote: > Rules & regulations?  For info please!  Thanks, > Charles
