From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 15 Mar 2003 20:11:26 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Side marker lens seal (long)

From: <Rustybikes(-at-)aol.com>
> This seal is completely enclosed under the lens and cannot be seen behind,
around the edge or thru the reflector.

Thanks, Rusty.  Mine are cracked, and I didn't want to take them apart just
yet.  When I get them mastered, I'll see if I can work in a seal, too.

> P.s. what was poisoning you with Chlorine gas as you stated in earlier
posts?  I'm worried about you.

Dumbness.  I helped to design and build a water treatment plant for the
small community that I live in.  I also maintain the system and take the
daily readings for the EPD report, etc..  When we designed the building, we
built in a ventilation system to exhaust any chlorine that might out-gas
from the solution storage tank.

Well, the EPD was impressed enough to call it the "most technically
advanced, privately-owned water treatment plant in the state of Georgia",
bringing in folk from all over the state to "see how it's done".  Quite a
gratifying experience, until my own oversight and... well, stupidity...
nearly ruined my health and proved the EPD wrong.

We'd overlooked what would happen if the chlorine solution out-gassed at a
much higher rate than expected and the ventilation system couldn't handle
it.

We'd gotten a shipment of liquid chlorine concentrate that was unstable, in
that it out-gasses at an outrageous rate.  It wasn't until 6+ months after
we started using it (last week) that I understood what was happening.

The solution out-gassed at a rate that kept the gas in the building's
atmosphere high enough to affect anyone in the building for more than 10
minutes daily, but not high enough to knock them out or kill them.

Chlorine gas is heavier than air and stays low, so the ventilation system
located up near the ceiling couldn't handle the increased load.  Interesting
fact, chlorine gas is a common water treatment personnel job hazard (moist
lungs/sinuses + chlorine gas = hydrochloric acid = bad stuff).

It's just God's grace that I recognized what was happening.  I felt like an
a$$ when I realized that having to de-gas the chlorine pump almost daily
meant that the chlorine was going somewhere other than in the system!
DUH!!!

Anyway, I'm completely venting the building now before entering it.  The
physical damage appears to be healing and I'm back to using most of my brain
cells for something other than melted Jello.

... my lungs are soggy, but very clean.

Thanks for asking.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
