Date: Sun, 14 Oct 2001 18:47:06 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Parts Web site

All,

Given that most everyone on this list has (or has an interest in) a
vehicle that's at least 35 years old, we've all been to the FLAPS at
one point or another.  Probably a lot of you have gotten frustrated
talking to a less-than-clueful parts counter guy and wanted to be
able to run the parts-looker-upper yourself - I know I have.  Well,
one of the chains has finally got a big clue about this:
http://www.autozone.com

They have put their parts lookup system on the Web.  You have to
register to use it, but all you need is a userid, password, and phone
number (make one up that's in your exchange, if you like).  You can
sign up to get email from them, too, but I don't care for such things
so I didn't.  You can make up an order and have them ship it to you,
or send the order to your local store for pick up.

They also have some basic diagnostic info which is fairly good, but 
you have to remember that they are in business to sell parts.  For
example, for "dim headlights", they recommend checking (in order)
the alternator, the battery, and the headlight sockets.  I'd check
the sockets first as they are cheap and easy.  :)  Also, you have
to remember that most of their troubleshooting info is geared toward
cars from about 1975-1980 on up - the majority of their business.  

The site does use JavaScript and cookies but not annoyingly so.  
It ran just fine for me on Linux Netscape which is a minor miracle
these days.  They are running IBM's version of Apache on Solaris,
which means that when they say "secure site" they are more likely
to actually mean it, and the Web site should stay up (their best
uptime so far is ~150 days, according to www.netcraft.co.uk).

They probably won't be able to get you a headlight lens for your
'49 Bug or ambulance fans for your '58 Binz - for those kinds of
things you should check with the many fine VW-specific vendors,
many of whom post here from time to time.  But for things they do
have, and for parts for some of the non-VW cars that we drive,
it should work well. 

I do not work for AutoZone in any capacity.  I am not getting any
money, discount, kickback, or consideration for posting this.  I
just think it's cool that they seem to have an operating clue and
have built a system that should save me some time.  Check out the
site.

Matt Roberds


