Date: Sun, 14 Oct 2001 23:17:06 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] '67 Backup lights - Troubleshooting

>From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Sat, 13 Oct 2001 18:32:33 EDT
>
>In a message dated 10/13/2001 10:34:48 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
>kintail(-at-)mb.sympatico.ca writes:
>>If I put the van in reverse and then stop; shut off the motor; and 
>>turn the key on to provide electric power only; the backup lights
>>should still theoritically be on. Is this correct?
>
>Correct!  Just make sure to remove the green thin wire from the off
>the coil that goes to the points of the distributor.  This will
>prevent your points from getting burnt while you take several
>minutes futzing around with the ignition power on.

This is good advice, any time you anticipate extended key-on
troubleshooting.  If you don't want to disconnect the wire, you
can also make sure the points are open by hooking up your static
timing light (test light) as if you were going to time the engine,
and rotating the engine until the light is on.  Note that you cannot
disable the ignition by removing any fuse; the feed to the ignition
coil is unfused in all stock split-window Buses.

This advice applies to anyone running points.  I don't know about
running a Compufire or Pertronix, but disconnecting the thin
wire from the negative side of the coil (the one that goes to
the distributor) will never hurt.

Also a note that Buses earlier than '67 with backup lights used
a switch on the speedometer cable to turn them on.  You still need
to disconnect the coil if you plan on extended troubleshooting,
but on these Buses, the easiest way to activate the switch with
the Bus parked is to jack up the left front corner and spin the
wheel backwards.

>>If it is then I can use the multimeter to figure out what's going
>>on..... 
>That is the best tool for any electricl problem.

Everyone already owns the best tool for every electrical problem -
it's that lump of stuff between your ears.  :)  The multimeter
usually comes in second, though.  If you are using a digital
multimeter, though, be aware that its very high resistance will
sometimes lead you astray.  It takes a tiny tiny amount of current
to operate, so it doesn't load the circuit under test much, which
is usually a good thing.  However, if you measure something like
between the output of the turn signal flasher and ground, you'll
see 12 volts...even if the turn signal bulbs aren't on.  A test
lamp from the output to ground won't come on, because there isn't
enough current to light the lamp.  About 99.5% of the time you
won't have to care about this subtlety, but it can occasionally
bite you.  If you're unsure, hook up your test lamp to the same
points your meter probes were, then probe with the meter again
and measure.  This advice applies to any VW without fuel injection;
some of the fuel-injection circuits may not take kindly to
probing with a test light.  "Don't be fearful, be careful", as
the Idiot Book says.

Matt Roberds


