From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 16 Oct 2001 11:27:11 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] Need AJ case (concluded)

>I honestly feel that, if you remove the obvious safety aspect, there is no
vehicle out there built today that is as truly useful and easy to repair as
my '63 VW bus.

You are correct.  Busses are very easy to work on for the DIY type of
person.

>As much as I love it I am tired of having to shell out at least $400 and
more like $1500 every time this thing gets a problem.

But Japanese cars are the best in the world!!! <tongue in check>  I thought
they were perfectly designed and would run without changing the oil for
500,000 miles! I am shocked...  In fact I am going to write my congressman.
:)  <sarcasm>

Whoever tells you modern Japanese cars are better than German or American
cars is full of it.  They all suck in their own special way.  I could
elaborate on all the design flaws in my past Honda Accord or Acura Integra
or Mazda 626, but I will spare the list.  Needless to say I drive all German
and American cars now.

I think the same logic applies to the SUV craze as the "buy Japanese"
craze...  None.  

------

Safety first
Car buyers continue to frustrate liberal environmentalists. According to
government statistics released last week, only 6 percent of the new 2002
models can achieve 30 miles per gallon. The overall average for the new
vehicles, which are currently heading to showrooms, is 21 mpg. 
This, said the Sierra Club's Daniel Becker, "is really appalling." But
others argued that the American appetite for big, gas-guzzling automobiles
is more rational than are liberal fears of fossil fuels, since such vehicles
tend to be the safest in accidents. "There is very little consumer demand
for the high-mileage vehicles because of the trade-offs," said Jeffrey
Miller of the Coalition for Vehicle Choice. Car buyers, he said, "want size,
they want safety, they want quality." 
The most fuel-efficient cars remained among the least popular: The Honda
Insight coupe and the Toyota Prius sedan, both hybrid gas- and
electric-powered cars, had 64 mpg and 48 mpg, respectively, in combined city
and highway driving. 
----
Even the so-called experts and a large part of the public seem to be
one-dimensional in their thinking toward safety. It is always and
exclusively vehicle mass. A vehicles handling, braking, evasiveness,
maneuverability, precision of controls, and most importantly the variability
of the drivers skill and capability are all ignored. Unreal! I'm clueless.

... Not saying that our busses are that great on the highway, but I think it
can go around turns just about as well as a large SUV.



Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC 

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!

