Cc: The Bug Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sun, 30 May 2004 19:06:35 -0400
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FI Update... Again. Very close now, but not quite there yet.

Hi Volks,

This afternoon I made another couple of baby steps forward.

The bus will idle with the AFM disconnected. It's a relatively smooth 
fast idle. A heavy throttle blip will choke the engine and it will die. 
A gentle application of throttle will increase revs. The smell of the 
exhaust tells me that it's running VERY rich this way. There's a 
garbage can about 18" from the tailpipe and it gets a nice carbon smear 
on it after a couple minutes.

Plug the AFM in and the engine will fire briefly and then die.

Late in the afternoon Collie Corner came over and he checked my work 
and didn't see any obvious errors in what I have done so far.

I connected a vacuum gauge to the manifold and was able to read 18" of 
mercury in while running without the AFM. My (insert plug for 
GermanSupply.com here) VDO fuel pressure gauge reads 40 PSI and the new 
oil pressure gauge reads close to 4 Bar. (approx 68 psi).

We tested the AFM and ECU on Collie's 79 federal westy and they both 
work fine.  Useful to know, but it doesn't tell me what IS wrong.

So here's where we're at:
Ignition = fine. It's a pertronics dishing out a nice fat spark. I 
haven't put a timing light on it but it's in the ballpark. If it would 
be useful to time the engine with the AFM disconnected I can do so, but 
the idle seems a bit too high for that.
The valves are fine, I checked them again this morning.
Vacuum = 18" at the manifold.
Fuel pressure = 40psi.
Oil pressure is good.
All Injectors are firing with a good spray pattern.
Head temp sensor is brand new.
The fuel pump will come on when the ignition is on and the AFM flap is 
moved.

As far as I can tell there are really only 2 other components to test: 
The double relay and the wiring harness. Everything else seems to work 
OK, or would not cause the current symptoms. I don't think the double 
relay could cause this problem anyway.  We probably could have tested 
my double-relay on Collie's bus too but he had a dinner to get to.

If anyone has any further input I'd be happy to hear it.  As I see it 
right now my options are as follows:

1. Try a known good double-relay. If this works, then we're good to go.
2. Swap in the throttle body, ECU, AFM and harness from the Sunroof 
bus. Then build a megasquirt system for the sunroof ;-).

Comments welcome.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
