Date: Wed, 09 Apr 2003 20:10:03 -0400
From: Alan Shoultz <ashoultz(-at-)comcast.net>
To: wfp3(-at-)lycos.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] help re-installing cylinders/heads on a two

From Bob Hoover:
Making a Wrist-pin Puller
The typical VW wrist pin is about 3" long and about 7/8" of an inch in
diameter (70mm by 22mm).

The puller is made from a section of tubing or pipe about four inches long.
Water pipe is a good choice, so long as the ID is large enough to accept the
wrist pin, which will extend up inside the puller as the pin slides out of
the piston. The edge of the puller that presses against the piston must be
filed to match the curvature of the piston in order to insure the puller
pulls in a staight line and the piston is not damaged. When filed to the
proper curve, the thick wall of the typical water pipe provides enough
surface to prevent marring the aluminum piston. But tubing with thinner
walls will work. The load puts the puller in compression and such a short
length of thin-walled tubing is extremely strong in compression. But the
thinner the wall, the more the risk of marring the piston.

Another reason pipe works so well is that you may close the upper end of the
puller with a regular pipe cap. With other types of tubing you'll have to
weld the end closed or make a suitable cap. I've made pullers from materials
as diverse as electrical conduit and even a section of tailpipe from a Bug.

The cap is drilled to accept a length of 1/2" diameter threaded rod about
eight inches long. (The extra length is needed when you use the puller to
insert wrist pins.) The threaded rod is turned into a puller-rod by welding
or peening a nut on one end then grinding the nut until it is marginally
smaller than the diameter of a wrist pin. Once ground down, the nut will
pass through the piston and connecting rod but will be too large to pass
through the wrist pin.

In use, the circlips, buttons or retaining rings are removed, the greased
puller-rod inserted though the wrist pin, the puller tube slid over the rod
and a nut threaded onto the free end of the rod. Turning the nut will cause
the wrist pin to be pulled out of the piston.

Turning the nut will also cause a wrist pin to be drawn INTO a piston as
well. I'll let you figure out how. But be cautious. The simple puller
described above can crush a piston.
