From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Michael Heron <Michael.Heron(-at-)mbs.gov.on.ca>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 14 Dec 2001 13:39:09 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] UHaul Horror Story?

I always use Ryder, much better trucks and aluminum trailers, much lighter,
better maintained equipment and if they don't have the truck requested when
you arrive they move you up to the next size at no extra charge. In my
opinion U-Haul sucks. When I rented the Ryder back east to haul the BD's
back I bought, the only rental trucks I was passing and seeing broken down
where U-Hauls.

-----Original Message-----
From: Michael Heron [mailto:Michael.Heron(-at-)mbs.gov.on.ca]
Sent: Friday, December 14, 2001 8:52 AM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] UHaul Horror Story?


Hi All-

I am planning on picking up a trailer/truck from Uhaul over the weekend to
tow a bus I have recently purchased(obligatory bus content). The
"reservation"  letter I have before me from UHAUL seems to be not be as much
of a reservation as it may first appear.

Call me Chicken Little but I made a few follow up calls to make sure all was
in order with the Uhaul agent that I am dealing with to actually pick up the
equipment and they tell me that they cannot guarantee that they will have a
vehicle/trailer available to me that  I reserved. They tell me that I might
need to go to another dealer to get the equipment within a 50 mile radius!
In spekaing with the "customer serviced: 1-800 number if you scratch the
caling tones they give you regarding the specifics of your resevervation
they will give you the same answer. Hardly a reservation if you ask me- to
me reservation and "cannot guarantee and might" should not go in the same
sentence.

Right now this is all conjecture as the day of reckoning has yet to arrive
(Sunday) however based on this I am not getting that great a feeling about
this.

Has anyone else had dealings with UHaul concerning this and how were they
(hopefully) resolved?

I want to sort this nonsense out before I get to the UHaul store to find out
that they may not have what I reserved.


Thanks

michael



---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
