Date: Mon, 17 Dec 2001 00:58:23 -0500
From: Doppelkabine <chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] hard starting

Have you checked whether your automatic choke (assuming you have one) is
working properly?  If it is broken or mis-adjusted and the butterfly
valve on top of the carb is wide open when you start the engine in cold
weather, this can result in hard starting.  This valve should be
adjusted (by adjusting the auto choke) to be open just a hair for
starting in cold weather.  See Type2.com library for auto choke
adjustment procedure.  If the choke is broken (as is mine--I recently
discovered that the first owner broke off the tang that hooks into the
choke coil), a workaround until you have time to fix the choke properly
is:

1. pump the accel pedal a couple times for priming
2. open the decklid
3. turn the stepped cam on the left side of the carb to almost close the
valve, & hold it in place with pressure from the idle adjust screw
4. go back in the cab and crank until it fires (don't touch the accel
pedal until it does)
5. put pressure on accel pedal to warm engine until it will idle
somewhat on its own
6. close decklid (important final step before leaving!)

You may have to repeat this procedure once or twice, but it will fire up
quicker without flooding the engine.  I am doing this myself until I
have the time to rebuild my 30-PICT-1.

jdd wrote:
> 
> I've really been having a tough time starting my bus these days.  I just keep turning it over again, and again and again and again and again and eventually it starts.  I set the points, the timing, etc.. it just takes a long time to get it running?  I drove my bus last winter on occasion and it wasn't near this tough to get started and it was much colder than these last couple of days.  Once it's running and warm it will restart ok but it's that initial started that's a b*tch. I'm running 20-50 oil and I'm thinking about going to 5 - 30 for the winter (not that I'll drive my bus much anyway in the winter).  I wonder if that will help?

-- 
Chris Hobbs and family, Leesburg VA
'67 Type 2 DoubleCab (stock)
two '74 412 wagons
'74 Beetle sedan (standard)
'79 Beetle cabriolet

