From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Mon, 17 Dec 2001 23:15:48 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] 28 PCI

Buslist-
Do I have this right? (Al's question is at the bottom.)

Al-
I don't know when exactly the main sprayer (and hence the main jet)
really starts going. What sprays when is determined by the vacuum
present in the carb at any given time. When the throttle is closed or
almost closed, vacuum is low and just a little gas is sucked out
through those small holes near the throttle plate, via the pilot jet
(and the mains, but flow here isn't enough for the main jet to have
much restrictive effect). As the throttle is opened more, vacuum
increases, and more gas is sucked through these progressively higher
holes, until sufficient vacuum exists (throttle largely open) to begin
sucking gas through that main sprayer arm, dead centre of the carb
barrel. This gas doesn't flow via the pilot jet or auxillary jet like
the stuff which comes out the holes near the throttle plate, it comes
straight through the main jet. So the mains doesn't really come into
play until your engine picks up speed. And when the throttle is wide
wide open and the motor is winding up like she's going to explode the
air correction jet starts letting in a little extra stream of air
bubbles into the gas flow to lean out the mixture some.
If your bus is stalling at idle I would guess either your mixture
screw is out too far or your pilot jet is too big. Emphasis on guess.
But it is a bit harsh judging a bus by how it behaves cold...
Joel


----- Original Message -----
From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "'Joel Bidinger'" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
Joel,
Put the bus away for winter, but latest adjustments have made for a
900
rpm idle that stall easy at stops, especially when just running 10
minutes or so. Still not hot enough oil I think, real shitty heat. I
imagine I am too rich still at the pilot and aux levels? When can the
main be taken into consideration? At a particular load/rpm, or
throttle
level? I am confused on this point. Seems like I am still after a
meaner/leaner idle...
Al



