From: Ceebers24mVB(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 27 Nov 2002 13:00:43 EST
To: schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Clutch compatablity question.

David,

Here are all the facts from the engine, I really appreciate your help. 

Situation:

Bought bus (74) in 94. Came with GE 2.0 Liter engine, unknown serial 5 rib 
tranny.
Tranny blew, and a buddy gave me a replacement. Replacement tranny is 5 rib, 
with "091" as first 3 #'s in serial.
Once we changed the tranny, it worked fine, BUT, the starter would not 
work(bell housing issue, at this point in my bus career, I was ignorant to 
the system) I replaced the starter with a 311 911 023 D Bosch starter, and 
everything worked great.

Last winter the bus sat for about 6 months while I was at school. I came back 
to find that the clutch would not dis-engauge. So when I shifted gears, it 
was as if the clutch pedal was not pressed down at all, when infact, it was 
all the way down and the spring arm on the tranny was getting full throw.

I dropped the engine, and found that the pilot bearing, release bearing, fork 
arm, pressure plate, and clutch plate were all working correctly and in 
satifactory condition. What I did find; however, was that after removing the 
pressure plate, the friction disk did not just fall out. I had to dead-blow 
the splined shaft a great deal until it came out.

Apparently, the clutch disk was rusted to the flywheel, and I suppose this 
happened since it didn't run for some time, and moisture was able to 
accumulate inbetween the flywheel and friction disk via condensation, and 
through the open timing hole on the front end of the crankcase.

After taking scotchbrite to the flywheel, I think that I aleviated the clutch 
"problem".....then I found another potential problem...

My engine is a GE 2 liter, and I guess the flywheel is a match to that. My 
tranny is a 091, but my clutch and pressure plate are 215mm, which while 
probably not the original, is probably the clutch to the original 1800 engine 
from the van. 

It seemed to work fine for years, and then I had that grabbing problem.

**Do I need to have a bigger clutch and disk? Can you use the smaller clutch, 
and if so, is it just not as 'strong'?

Since I got the sucker all apart, I suppose now is a good time to deal with 
this problem.

Any and all feedback and/or advice is welcomed, and deeply appreciated.

Chris Brooks  (C.B.)
Virginia Beach, Va.
1974 Westfalia Hightop-Breadbox:)
