Date: Wed, 27 Nov 2002 14:18:57 -0600
To: Ceebers24mVB(-at-)aol.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Clutch compatablity question.

At 12:00 PM 11/27/2002, Ceebers24mVB(-at-)aol.com wrote:
>Replacement tranny is 5 rib,
>with "091" as first 3 #'s in serial.
>I replaced the starter with a 311 911 023 D Bosch starter, and
>everything worked great.

Sounds like you have the later tranny (although I was fairly certain that it
had 6 ribs, not 5.  I don't own one anymore so I have no way of checking).
Since you had to swap starters, that tells me that you also have the later
bellhousing and 2-liter flywheel.

>My engine is a GE 2 liter, and I guess the flywheel is a match to that. My
>tranny is a 091, but my clutch and pressure plate are 215mm

Sure sounds like you have the wrong clutch and pressure plate.  Or maybe just
the wrong clutch.  I'm not sure the 215mm pressure plate will bolt up to the
227mm flywheel.  Anyone?

>It seemed to work fine for years, and then I had that grabbing problem.

This will be the first time I've ever heard of someone actually running that
combination of mismatched parts.  You're a trendsetter!

>**Do I need to have a bigger clutch and disk? Can you use the smaller clutch,
>and if so, is it just not as 'strong'?

Not only is it not as "strong" but the contact areas of the flywheel and
pressure plate are mismatched, which at best reduces the effectiveness of your
clutch to somewhat less than a stock '74-'75 clutch and at worst puts some
wierd forces on the parts involved which may have contributed to the failure.
You really should get the 227mm clutch and pressure plate to match your
2-liter engine and tranny.  Ask the parts supplier for a '76-'79 pressure
plate and disc.  If you can buy them locally, take your old ones in as a
sanity check and make sure the mounting holes on the pressure plate line up
(this is the one thing I'm not sure is the same between the two parts, as I
mentioned above).  Also, before you go put your old clutch disc up against the
flywheel and verify that the friction surface of the flywheel is approximately
1/2" (1/4" on each side) wider than the clutch disc.  Do the same with your
pressure plate - does it's friction surface match that of the clutch disc?
Another way to be sure would be to remove your flywheel and take it with you
to the parts store to test-fit the clutch disc against it.  If the clutch disc
won't fit "in" the flywheel, then you have the 215mm flywheel and something
you told me earlier is wrong.  :)

Oh, if there is wear on your flywheel, you may need to remove it and have it
machined flat before installing the new disc.

>Since I got the sucker all apart, I suppose now is a good time to deal with
>this problem.

Any time you're not on the road is a good time, IMO.

The more I think about it, the more I think that the 215mm pressure plate will
not bolt to the 227mm flywheel.  My best guess now is that you have the 227mm
flywheel from the 2-liter, a 227mm pressure plate and a 215mm clutch disc.  So
maybe you will get lucky and only have to spring for a new clutch disc.

-David
