Date: Wed, 9 Feb 2005 19:52:58 -0800
Cc: Joe Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: ListServs and Pix (the last word...)

Techie here... (and my last post on the subject before Steve, George, 
David and the other admins jump down my throat for continuing an 
off-topic thread.)

Short answer: Yes and yes.

Long answer:

When you email a picture, the sender's e-mail software has to convert 
said image into ascii text.  Said image grows to about three times its 
"normal" size and is transmitted across the net. When it reaches its 
destination, the recipient's e-mail client then 'de-converts' said 
image back to its original format. FTP'ing pictures to a website is 
much more efficient. FTP doesn't require the conversion process.

E-mail was not designed to move large amounts of data about.  I deal 
daily with dial-up users whose broadband using friends feel it 
necessary to send lots of pictures straight off their mega-pixel 
cameras. When that happens, the recipient never gets the pictures (the 
mail client times out) and usually cannot collect ANY mail until the 
offending message is deleted. (Hint from hellhole: If you keep getting 
the same messages over and over, this is what is happening.  Use 
mail2web.com to delete the large message and your mail will work again.)

Pictures in e-mail any time is a poor idea. Pictures in e-mail 
distributed by a mailing list is an extremely poor idea.

Jim Arnott
Technical Services
Eastern Oregon Net, Inc.

On Tuesday, February 8, 2005, at 09:14 AM, Chris M. wrote:

> For you techies out there: would an e-mail message with text and a 2-3 
> pics be any larger than viewing an HTML webpage of the same size? 
> Would it cause any more 'net traffic to download a message with an 
> inline pic than viewing a page with pics? I don't think it would, 
> seeking opinions. Again the subscriber could have the option NOT to 
> recieve pics set at the Type2 server level. 
