From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Timothy Woenker" <multipang(-at-)kconline.com>
Date: Wed, 15 Sep 2004 23:11:44 -0700
Subject: Re: Gunson Smog Tester

Hi. I am replying to the list too because when the thread was discussed a 
couple of weeks ago, I never got around to replying because I wanted to 
check some of the statements against the owner's manual.

Some of the complaints were accuracy of only 0.5% CO and drifting of the 
calibration. I was surprised to find the manual agrees on both counts. If 
you are targeting a 1.5% CO allowed for smog, and feel successful in getting 
the car down to 1.3%, you could fail if the actual value is 1.8%.

The manual gives some suggestions on calibration drift, but I found my best 
solution was a longer sniffer hose. They only provide about 3' of hose, but 
the instrument is calibrated against the CO reading in natural air before 
sniffing your exhaust. I found that with only 3' separation between the 
instrument and the tailpipe, the ambient air becomes contaminated with 
exhaust. Note the sniffers in smog shops come with very long hoses. I was 
only able to extend mine to about 6 feet, but found significantly improved 
utility of the instrument with that small improvement as it enables me to 
get it out of the immediate exhaust area. If my testing requires running the 
engine for an extended period of time, I find more drift, and I simply turn 
off the motor, let the area air out a while, and purge the sniffer hose of 
exhaust to recalibrate. Even if it drifts while testing, you can still get a 
ballpark of where you are by adusting. For example, if my end exhaust 
reading is 1.8 % CO, but when I purge the hose I find the calibration has 
drifted to 1.0 % CO (supposed to calibrate at 2.0% CO in natural air), then 
I know my actual exhaust was 0.8% because the meter drifted down 1%. This 
suits for ball park readings. For critical situations, I do the 
recalibration for the most precise reading possible.

Search the archives to find the previous thread where list members made 
references to web sites with instructions for do-it-yourself smog testers 
and two commercially available units.

To answer your question, I have been very grateful for having this resource 
to help me with tuning my vw's. It is so much peace of mind compared to not 
knowing, especially as lean mixtures eat motors. I have no complaints about 
the response time.

John

----- Original Message ----- 

Subject: Gunson Smog Tester


> John:

> I noticed in your post to the type2 list that you have used a Gunson,
 and I am hoping that you could share your experience and opinion of the
 unit.

> I live in Indiana where there are no smog testing requirements so
 therefore I've not been able to find a shop that can perform an exhaust
 gas analysis.  Therefore, I've been considering the purchase of an
 inexpensive exhaust gas analyzer so that I can test by '79 bus to make
 sure that its not running lean.  Obviously the Gunson is one of the
 candidates due to its relatively cheap price.  However, I've read some
 not-so-good reports about the Gunson, particularly that it has a slow
 response time and tends to drift making a reliable reading hard to
 obtain.

> What is your opinion of the utility of the Gunson?

> Thanks.

> Tim Woenker
 '79 Westy
