Date: Thu, 16 Sep 2004 09:33:30 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Subject: Brake maintance for a mountain trip

Do the brake stomp test. Have somebody stomp the brakes as if making a hard stop, and look for bulges in the flexible rubber lines. 

If you have a blown wheel cylinder or if your bus is high mileage, be sure to measure the drums. I had a '66 Moostang with a single circuit brake system fail TWICE on the mountain road wheel I grew up near Chattanooga. BOTH times it was during the morning rush hour and I was LUCKY! Neither time did I hit anything... 

For any brake system newbies, in a single circuit brake system if you loose hydraulic pressure at 1 wheel, you loose all the brakes and believe me - the hand brake isn't going to stop you very quickly, maybe at all on a mountain road. 

All the bus imprevements you make are for naught if your brakes fail and you die (or kill somebody else), your steering fails (same result) or it burns to the ground because the fuel lines are JUNK! 

I would advise simply replacing any and all of the rubber flexible lines if you do not know anything about their age. Most of the cars I have worked on had OEM factory original lines. Replace the rear wheel cylinders (or rebuild them) if the rubber is cracked at all or leaking, and seriously look at the master cylinder for leaks. Usually if my master cylinder is going bad (hasn't failed), it will soon after I flush the system for some reason. 

Pads and shoes: if the material is thick enough, be happy. No cracks on the material though. Calipers: not leaking or sticking? Okay. Drums and rotors: no heavy pitted rust, no cracks, no chips, got to be thick enough. Rubber lines: replace them all. Metal lines: inspect for dents and rust, and wet spots (leaks in progress). Master cylinder: replace if leaking. Flush the whole system, drive it a few days and flush again. 

While you are at it: replace the steering coupler, and all your fuel lines - vent lines included. Opinion: add a valve to the bottom of the gas tank to stop fuel flow before the lines. Use long choke cable to turn it on and off from inside the car, maybe around the back seat someplace. Useful for a security feature and in case of fire. 

Chris 
'78 Westy 2.7L - "Dharma"
