Date: Fri, 17 Sep 2004 18:18:44 -0400
From: Robert <robtjm(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: two questions

I have two totally unrelated questions I'd like to pose.

The first relates to my 78 Westy. I have a wiring anomaly I'd like to 
correct. Recently, when my car wouldn't start I discovered I had no 
power to the coil. I tracked down the problem to some worn insulation 
on the wire supplying power to the coil, and I have fixed that. The 
problem is I have discovered some incorrect wiring.

It is my understanding that the ignition circuit operates a relay which 
activates the heater air blower, and that upon passing through the 
relay, the circuit proceeds to the positive terminal on the coil. In my 
car the relay was bypassed, and the ignition wire went directly to the 
coil. I figured this was done because either the relay or the blower 
was defective. However, I tried connecting it up correctly to see what 
would happen.

When I put power to the relay, I hear it click shut. And the blower 
motor operates. So there doesn't appear to be any problem with the 
function of the relay or the blower. The problem is, that I get no 
voltage on the relay terminal that feeds the coil.

I don't see how this could be. Doesn't current need to pass through the 
ignition circuit to close the relay? Am I missing the point. Can the 
relay operate even if there is no power at the coil? Is the relay 
defective?

My second, totally unrelated question is as follows. I just bought a 
pretty rough '78 Riviera (which I posted about yesterday). The interior 
is critically infected with mildew, and it has a beyond nasty stink. I 
thought I might set up a camp stove on the interior floor,  and boil a 
pot of bleach with the car sealed up. The idea is for the resultant 
fumes to eradicate the mildew. Would this be a very bad idea?  Seems 
like it might be, but on the other hand, the stink is ungodly. Got any 
other mildew cures that don't involve spending significant time inside 
the car?

Thanks.

Rob Mead
