From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: "Adam Puzerewski" <VGONMAN(-at-)msn.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 31 Dec 2001 13:18:31 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Understanding AFC fuel injection--question

The auxiliary air regulator doesn't have anything to do with the fuel
mixture.  Like you said, this air is measured by the AFM so it is taken into
account when the fuel mixture is computed.

The purpose of the auxiliary air regulator is to let ADDITIONAL air bypass
the throttle body.  Some air can always bypass at the throttle body itself,
this is how the engine idles.  The air regulator allows more air by, so the
effect is kind of like holding your foot down on the gas pedal to raise the
idle speed.  The whole idea is for the air regulator to allow a little more
air past the throttle plate to allow the engine to idle a little faster so
it can overcome the extra drag of cold oil, etc.  That's all it does.

The mixture is adjusted for temperature depending on information from the
intake air temperature sensor and the cylinder head temperature sensor.

Sean Bartnik
Jersey City, NJ


----- Original Message -----
From: "Adam Puzerewski" <VGONMAN(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type 2 Mail List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>; "Vanagon"
<vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>
Sent: Sunday, December 30, 2001 6:33 PM
Subject: [T2] Understanding AFC fuel injection--question


Volks,
I just spent the better part of the day diagnosing my fuel injection on my
81 and am back where i started.

I have an official vw AFC book, as well.  What I do not get is the process
when it is starting cold.....air flows thru the AFM, and if the motor is
cold enough, the auxillary air regulator is open, and air is diverted to the
intake manifold, thus bypassing the throttle body.  This book says that this
enables the motor to act the same cold as it does hot, for the control unit
adds additional fuel to the injectors when it senses the engine is cold.
Now, there is no sensor, or anything on the throttle body, so how does this
auxillary air regulator do anything?  The air still ends up in the intake
manifold and thus diverted to the cylinders anyway..................I could
see it doing something if it were unregulated air, but it is regulated at
the AFm.................



Adam P

81 Vanagon westy ( The Brick)
70 SingleCab "Whitey"
74 Beetle "ol yeller"
73 Transporter (STILL at paint shop)

Used Vanagon Parts for sale (mostly aircooled)


