Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Fri, 9 Jan 2004 17:12:38 -0500
To: andy(-at-)pon.type2.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE:  friday topic   new bussing song compilation

On Jan 9, 2004, at 4:00 PM, andy(-at-)pon.type2.com wrote:

 >  i want to make a new compilation of travelling music.
 >  i cant remember much of what was on the tape that was with the
hubcap. :(

Andy,

I made that tape.  As far as I know it has gone missing and been that
way for quite some time now.  I tried to arrange to get it into the box
at EveryBus when Britt Grannis (of RoadCow fame) had it, bet that fell
through.

Here is the playlist:

SIDE A	-	ELECTRIC
Customized				Dave Olney & The X-Rays
Roadhouse Blues			The Doors
Let It Roll				Little Feat
Cruisin				Jefferson Starship
Middle Of The Road			The Pretenders
Road To Nowhere			Talking Heads
Crossroads				Cream
Rockin Down The Highway		Doobie Brothers
Street Corner Talking			Savoy Brown
Freeway Jam				Jeff Beck
Dirty Back Road			B-52s
Ralphs Spoilsport Motors		Firesign Theater

SIDE B		-	ACOUSTIC
On The Road Again			Willie Nelson
Country Road			James Taylor
(Get Your Kicks On) Route 66	Asleep At The Wheel
Lost Highway				Leon Russel
Caravan				Van Morrison
Travelin Light				J.J. Cale
On The Road Again (Again)		Grateful Dead
Willin					Little Feat
Take It Easy				Jackson Browne
Gasoline Alley				Rod Stewart
Traffic Jam				Dan Hicks & His Hot Licks
Ramblin Man				Allman Brothers Band
Travelin Prayer			Billy Joel

Other tunes under consideration:

Holiday Road				Lindsay Buckingham
Goin' Down the Road Feeling Bad	Grateful Dead
Old Dirt Road				John Lennon
Drive My Car				The Beatles
Riding in My Car			Woody Guthrie
Why Don't We Do It in the Road	The Beatles
Hometown Streets			Nanci Griffith
Back Roads of Tennessee		Shawn Colvin
The Long and Winding Road		The Beatles
Human Highway				Neil Young
Where is the Highway Tonight	Neil Young/Waylon Jennings
Goodbye Yellow Brick Road		Elton John
Life in the Fast Lane			The Eagles
Key to the Highway			Derek and the Dominoes
Roadrunner				Fleetwood Mac
Shakedown Street			Grateful Dead

Even more tunes:

Tobacco Road				Edgar Winter's White Trash
Crosstown Traffic			Jimi Hendrix
Highways					Jeff Beck Group
Down the Road				Little Feat
Street Life					Roxy Music
Takin' It to the Streets			The Doobie Brothers
Slowin' Down				Barefoot Jerry
Two Mile Pike				Barefoot Jerry
Granny White Special			Mark O'Conner
Drivin' Wheel				Emmylou Harris

I know this list is prolly more than anybody really wanted, but if
anyone is interested in getting a copy of the tape, just p-mail me.

Trouble is, I can't find 100 minute cassettes any more.  :-o

If there is any way to get the tape back with the hubcap (and KEEPING
it there), please let me know.

I could burn a CD, but they don't hold more than 70 minutes of music
:-(

Chris Slaymaker
Knoxville, Tennessee
1971 Westfalia  "Lurch"
"...at least I'm enjoying the ride."
