Date: Sun, 11 Jan 2004 00:00:06 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Stalling on sharp throttle relase, but idles fine [long]

ll,

I'm having trouble with my '64.  I thought it would be parked, awaiting
warmer weather, but a misplaced Christmas tree put my daily driver in
the shop and the Bus has been pressed into service.

The short version is that it stalls when I let off the gas when coming
up to a light.  Bentley says "idle too rich", but messing with the
volume control screw (30 PICT 1) doesn't seem to help much.  What's
going on?

The long version...

When I am coming up to a red light, and release the accelerator and push
in the clutch for the last shift into neutral, the engine will stall.
Sometimes cranking it immediately with no throttle will restart it,
sometimes cranking it immediately with about 20% throttle will restart
it, and sometimes I have to crank, wait, crank, wait, then it will catch
on about the third try.  Once it's restarted it idles happily; I rev it
up and put it in first when the light turns green and everything is fine
until the next light.

The last time I drove it extensively was in September and October and it
did this once or twice when cold, but when warm, it did it very rarely.
I drove it to work on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday; about 8 miles on
city streets one way, and it did it pretty much consistently.  I let it
warm up for at least two minutes each time I drove it.  On Wednesday it
was in the 30s and 40s; by Friday it had warmed up to the low 50s.

I can't get it to happen while standing still.  I have tried running the
engine up to about 2000 rpm with the transmission in neutral, holding 2000
rpm for several seconds, then suddenly unloading the engine by letting off
the gas and stepping on the clutch.  It just goes back to idle and chugs
along happily at idle.  It seems to only happen when I've had the engine
under load, then suddenly unload it.  I've tried stepping on the clutch
sooner (higher RPM) and later (low RPM; engine starting to bog down) with
no change.

My first thought was that the choke (adjusted for warmer weather) was
staying on too much.  So on Thursday I backed the choke way off, and
cranked up the idle (screw on throttle lever) some for good measure.  That
didn't help, and seemed to make it much harder to restart when I did stall.
So I put the choke back to about where it was, left the idle cranked up,
and I was back to the same old problem.

Here's what I have:
- '68 Bug 1500 (by case number) with SP heads; I don't know if it's really
  a 1500 or 1600 or...?
- Solex/Bocar 30-PICT-1 carb, 1979 date code; rebuilt (by me) and throttle
  shaft rebushed (by a carb shop) in spring 2003; it does NOT have the
  electromagnetic cutoff jet; it has an 0120 main, g55 pilot, and 125z
  air correction/emulsion tube (Bentley specs 115 main, g60 pilot with
  cutoff valve, 135z air correction for the 30-PICT-1 starting in '66)
- "riser" (about a 2" long pipe with flanges on each end) to get the carb
  up to the right height; carb studs through top flange, nuts and bolts
  through bottom flange
- stock oil bath air cleaner; preheat tube hooked up, weighted flap in
  snout working
- Brazilian 009
- probably stock transmission, or at least one with equal gear ratios
  to stock
- last tank of gas (23 Sep 2003 to 9 Jan 2004) yielded 16.6 mpg; tank
  before that yielded 15.7 mpg

The Bentley says that my problem can be caused by a too-rich idle.  I
decided to check that, _after_ checking over the ignition, valves, etc.
So this afternoon, I...

- checked valves; all were at 0.006"
- pulled all 4 spark plugs (Bosch W8AC); 1-2-3 OK, whitish insulator,
  generally good looking; #4 fouled with oil and smelled of fuel; gaps
  OK on all plugs
- replaced #4 with a used platinum W8AP (these were in it when I got
  the Bus)
- checked points; one contact seemed to have a bit of a bump on it (this
  was the set that came with the 009; had a white plastic rubbing block)
- swapped points and condenser for new Bosch spares (points were made in
  Spain; had a brown fiber rubbing block)
- checked rotor and cap; appeared OK
- set points for around 50-52 degrees dwell
- set total advance to 30 degrees at 3000 rpm with advance-adjustable
  timing light (distributor is a Brazilian 009) (noted about a 5 degree
  jitter in the timing mark position; could be interference with timing
  light pickup or... ?)
- did a "cylinder balance" test by pulling one plug wire at a time; #1 and
  #3 make the idle drop noticeably; #2 makes it drop a little; #4 does
  almost nothing
- swapped the #3 and #4 plug wires to check for a bad wire; #4 was still
  bad in the cylinder balance test
- cleaned up the copper plug and put it back in #4; #4 was still bad in
  the cylinder balance test
- took the choke element out and verified that the choke plate / linkage
  moves freely
- aligned the mark on the choke element with the bump on the rim of the
  hole it fits into and reassembled
- made sure the carb-to-manifold bolts were tight
- started engine and let it idle, occasionally goosing it; noticed fast
  idle cam gradually turning and letting it come down off fast idle
- once it was on lowest step of cam, took off the air intake elbow and
  made sure that the choke plate was vertical; re-attached elbow
- noted that fuel filter was staying about 1/3 to 1/2 full at all times
- adusted idle per Bentley procedure:
  . adjust throttle arm screw for ~800 rpm
  . tighten volume control screw until idle drops, then back off
    about 1/4 turn
  . readjust throttle arm screw for ~800 rpm

Then I went and drove it around... still doing it.  I adjusted the volume
control screw about three or four times, going about 1/8 turn further
closed each time, without much change.

I came back home and tried resetting to zero - I carefully screwed the
volume control screw in until it bottomed, then backed it out 1 turn.  I
started the engine and played with it; it was hard to get the idle speed
to drop much until I had it screwed almost all the way in, but I did
manage to kill the engine by screwing it all the way in.  I finally ended
up with it about 1/2 to 3/4 turn out from closed (Bentley says around
1 1/4 to 1 1/2 turns out is normal.)  I went and drove around again and
it still did it (twice), so I came back home.

I've looked in the archives and they suggest a loose electromagnetic
cutoff jet (which I don't have.)  Also possibly an intake leak, which I
don't _think_ I have... the carb has its throttle shaft bushed and a fresh
set of gaskets; it seems to be tight to the manifold; the manifold seems
to be tight to the heads.  The outside of the carb gets colder than
ambient, which I take as a sign that most of the air _is_ going through
it.  I cleared out the preheat tube when I put the new muffler on it.

I am thinking it might be any of the following...

- I've got an intake leak somewhere that I haven't found yet.
- I need to be more patient with adjusting the volume control screw.
- The idle circuit in the carb is either gunked up or damaged -- I have
  read that you can damage the needle valve seat by turning the volume
  control screw in too far.
- Trying to make anything work right with #4 not doing its fair share
  is folly.

Any ideas on other things to try, or something I'm overlooking?
If you need more data or background, just let me know.

Thanks!

Matt Roberds
