From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 11 Jan 2004 19:34:22 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Stalling on sharp throttle relase, but idles fine

In a message dated 1/11/2004 11:43:10 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
mattroberds(-at-)cox.net writes:
>>I sort of wonder why it screws up when driving and coming back to idle, but 
not when I start it and idle it.  I guess if it's just sitting there idling, 
only the idle circuit is in play.  But when I've been driving, enough air is 
getting sucked through the carb to bring the main jet into play, and it could 
be putting in too much fuel? <<
Hi Matt,
Well...  if the main jet is way too big it will shove out too much fuel even 
at an idle.  Which often shows up having to screw in the air fuel mixture 
screw way far in and even then it will have little to no response to turning it in 
further.  BTDT!  When you suddenly let up on the gas pedal there is an added 
surge of too much fuel being sprayed into the engine even with the correct 
carb jetting.  Which is why in the 1970s VW issued the type 1 engine with a 
throttle positioner part # 113 131 307.  This part does not allow the throttle to 
snap shut but instead take a few seconds to more slowly close.  This prevents a 
huge fuel surge into the engine and less emissions.
    BTW you getting almost 16 to 17 MPG is way way too low unless you are 
realy drag racing it around town or way over RPMing it cruising around!  You 
should easily get 20+ MPG.  With our 1641cc SP CW engine and 3.875 FF tranny we 
are getting 22-24 MPG.  Just a 3MPG improvement should result in $avings in 
about 80,000 miles to be able to pay for a mildly better than stock rebuild.
>>The Bentley procedure will show this, right?  (Torque down fuel pump flange 
with gaskets, measure height that rod sticks up as you turn the engine over). 
<<
Yes, it does.  Though you should not need to torque the fuel pump flange down 
due to it being a bit of a press fit into the engine case.  So in an engine 
already built all you need to do is remove fuel pump, rotate engine crank till 
rod is at highest point, and measure.

>>I'll check out the things you've mentioned and report.  Thanks!<<

No problemo!
Eric&Barb
