Date: Mon, 12 Jan 2004 12:19:55 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting in Cold Weather

>Can I paint in 30 deg weather and just leave it longer to "dry"?
>What if I apply it when it's 30 degrees, but immediately place a radiant 
>heater under it for an hour or two?

I am dealing with the same issues with my Corvair implant project.

Suggestions: warm that can of paint before using. Maybe store them in a 
heated area (70 degrees) until you are ready to use. Several hours so the 
paint inside the can is actually 70 degrees and not just the exterior of 
the can is warm.

Make darn sure it is well shaken.

Heat the surface to be painted with whatever you've got. Heat lamp works 
for me for example. If the surface is hot enough a thin coat of paint will 
dry in a snap. Way, way, way back when I was about 16 I inherited a BIG and 
HEAVY National Cash Register from the 20's. It wasn't the fancy ornate 
brass ones, just a big black one any Mennonite would be happy with... 
<grin> Heated the rattle can, heated the cash register panels 
(diassembled), and sprayed them. Then heated the panels and kept them 
plenty warm for an hour or two. The paint is still on that cash register 
and very tough. Was just cheap K-mart rattle can paint. That was about 
1986. Heated it all over a Kerosene heater... Dumb, dumb, dumb. At least if 
the panel burst into flames all I would have to do is put it out. This 
would of course burn down a bus and a shop.

(recently "baked" a piece of Corvair shroud with a propane torch. I had 
soaked it in kerosene and diesel for several hours trying to rinse and 
brush off the 1/4" of grease and grime. Tin caught fire of course and was 
difficult to extinguish. I tossed it on the floor. Bit and pieces of the 
burning grease went everywhere. Beware of fire! <grin> Method worked though 
because I could - once it was cooled - very easily remove the now dried 
dirt san grease off of the tin. It just crumbled off versus a big greasy 
mess. I prefer crazy and reckless methods like that be used outside but it 
was 20 degrees and outside wasn't a comfortable option. I hope some day to 
have an old electric oven in my shop to bake and preheat parts to be 
cleaned and parts to be painted.)

My method:

Turn off all open flame heating sources. Don safety equipment (mask).

Spray in very light coats until the part is well covered.

Keep those flames off and I'd frankly call it a night b/c of the fumes.

Spray with lacquer based paints (seems to be the typical for the cheap 
rattle can paint I am buying) b/c the naphtha farm implement paints I 
prefer for the undersides where looks are not important (and the paint is 
cheap!) doesn't deal well with the cold. The Corvair fan I painted with a 
naphtha based paint took 3 days to dry whereas all the other stuff painted 
with the lacquer rattle can paint dried in a reasonable amount of time 
(overnight). The fan looks fine but the top coat lifted the first coat so 
the paint has a texture to it. I wouldn't be surprised to see the paint 
fail quickly though after 5K-10K miles. .

Observations: paint is not very tough that I sprayed in the cold. Maybe it 
is b/c the cold has seriously impeded the curing, maybe b/c the paint is 
cheap, maybe it is b/c it is lacquer.

Recommendations: use a brush on paint like the Rustoleum paints for floors 
and frame of bus. Thicker and tougher. Tough to get much paint thickness 
with rattle can. A regular paint man would apply much more paint with a gun 
than a rattle can could supply economically. I recently tried the Rustoleum 
textured and hammered paints. Very nice.

I hope this helps and naturally YMMV... Good luck!




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
