From: "Troy Wical" <troy(-at-)wicals.com>
To: <FullMoon(-at-)hville.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 1 Aug 2002 19:24:28 -0400
Subject: New VW fan.......

------=_NextPart_000_002D_01C23991.2397D770
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

            Hello all.  As Jason (FasterLaster) posted earlier, my
girlfriend Leah did finally deliver our baby boy.  This past weekend she
had camped up at HCBF and everyone was sure the baby would come that
night being the she was a week and a half past her due date.  As it
turns out we ended up going to the hospital Mondy evening and was there
till about three am.  The doctor said that the baby was not progressing
but that she would schedule an induction that Wednesday (7.31.02.)  So
we headed out early that morning for the appointment with Leah feeling a
bit on the bad side to say the least.  I folded down the rear seat and
put the futon mattress in for her to lay on as it would be a one hour
trip to the hospital.  There is one major pass that we have to go over
(Black Mountain in Western North Carolina) that some of you know about I
am sure.  It took me about 20 minutes to get to the top of it and by the
time I got to the bottom of the other side, Leah was progressing at a
very quick rate.  When the area was not crowded, I pushed the bus to its
limits as this was definitely a situation that allowed it.  I watched
the oil temp gauge wishing that I had not put it in yet.  Once off the
interstate it was full bore to the hospital with the hazards on and the
horn going.  Pulled up to the emergency room doors and jumped out to go
and help Leah out the sliding door.  (Insert bus content here)  One look
at Leah and I knew she would not make it as the babies head was nearly 4
inches out already.  I yelled at the security guard and in seconds there
was about 20 doctors surrounding the bus.  I watched in awe as I watched
my baby son came into the world.  Words cannot describe how this feels
and tears come to my eyes just typing this post.  Cameron Andrew Wical
was born at 0800 on July 31st 2002 weighing 9 pounds 11 ounces.  I would
like to say right now how much I love Leah and that I apologize for not
getting her the Epidural she deserved.  It also happens that Katie's
birthday is on the same day so we have had a lot of action occurring
over the past few days.  I would also like to thank everyone on the Type
2 list and those we have met at the campouts.  You are all part of our
family and everything you have done for us to help with the bus and our
family is greatly appreciated.  You are all great friends.  Have a good
evening everyone.
 
Pics of Cameron can be found here  www.wicals.com/cameron/delivery
Pics of Katie with her presents here
http://www.wicals.com/katie/bday4/page1
 
 
Troy Wical
troy(-at-)wicals.com
www.wicals.com
'78 Transporter 
 

------=_NextPart_000_002D_01C23991.2397D770--


