Date: Sun, 05 Sep 2004 08:25:23 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Just put on a high quality Empi muffler (hahaha)

At 04:54 AM 09/05/2004, you wrote:

>Go the same exact unit from RMMW for $60 ( some kind of special at the time.
>Was nearly completely rusted after driving 10 miles in completely dry
>weather.  Painted it with high temp POR, several times.  Was completely
>rusted away after 1 year.

The difference between mufflers that fall apart fast and those that last is 
primarily the thickness of the metal. Look at a $450 Mercedes or BMW 
muffler. Metal is perhaps 2mm+ thick. They last about 15 to 20 years. Three 
times the price, 5 times the life. If the metal is thick, the rust becomes 
a protective layer. The quality of the metallurgy is a big factor as well. 
Very easy to tell the difference. If you can bump it with the heal of you 
hand and dent it, it won't last long. If you bruise your hand with no dent, 
it's going to take a long long time to rust through. Just consider the rear 
x-pipes with the heavy cast iron flanges as original. I've seen those 
suckers 30 years old and still not yet rusted through though heavily pitted.

Also, if you do a lot of short run driving, that first 10 minutes of warm 
up will fill it with condensed water. In that type of use it is helpful to 
drill a drain hole at the bottom on each end. This will extend the life 
considerably in short range uses. This is standard procedure at my shop on 
the Volvo mufflers which are similar materials to the Dansk type VW 
mufflers. Doubles their life to just add two 1/8" drain holes for short run 
uses.

As to high temp paints, I tried several on my original 67 Porsche muffler. 
All peeled and flaked off in a few thousand miles. If you want a permanent 
paint on mufflers, have the new one properly prepared and powder coated. 
But if it is the cheap (thin) metal type it will still rust out from the 
inside in short order.

Designed to be cheap and get you out the driveway is a whole different 
world than designed to last a long life for much better value over the long 
haul. It really is a "get what you pay for" kind of deal.

And by the way, using "high quality" in conjunction with EMPI is 
charlatanism. EMPI has always targeted the crowd that thinks VW's are cheap 
cars and refuse to pay the price for the German quality originally built 
into them upon which their reputation for VALUE over the long haul was 
established.
