From: Ibyvws(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 5 May 2002 20:32:05 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: vallejo weekend trip report (eventful yes!! and long)

Well,
The weekend all started Friday after work. I decided to load up the 15-window 
friday so I would have saturday free to myself.
I went through all the inventory of used parts to decide what I would take to 
swap so I could have some extra money for Bug-O-Rama or the Classic.
Decided what to take and got loaded up. Figures it would be a lot more than I 
expected to take. But, oh well. Someone might need the parts more than I.
Got up early Sunday am, backed the deluxe out of the garage fully loaded down 
with parts.
Everything going ok so far. Called my buddy Tony to let him know I was on the 
way, figured he'd catch me anyway in his Ch*vy he took to the swaps.
About 15 minutes into my journey I see an early bug coming up behind me. 
Looks pretty clean I think to myself. As it gets closer I recognize it as the 
most current feature car in one of our favorite VW mags. A light blue early 
bug with a roof rack and  a surfboard strapped down. License plate says HIS 
VW.
As soon he passes which is about 3 minutes before the Benicia Bridge I feel a 
hesitation in the engine. Hmm, I think to myself, what the hell was that. I 
go just a bit further and I hear blam, blam, blam. Sh*t, and f*ck were about 
the first two words that came to mind. So, I pull over to the emergency lane 
to see what the heck happened.
As I open the engine compartment I see a spark plug still attached to the 
spark plug wire sitting off to the side.  Sh*it was still on my mind. #4 plug 
shot out of the head. Upon further inspection I see an insert still attached 
to the spark plug. I pulled out the faithful tool kit and grabbed some pliers 
to pull the plug from the wire. Plug looks ok. Damn those get hot!!
I tried to thread the plug back in, but nothing. Wouldn't catch at all.
Meanwhile I called AAA to see if they could get a tow truck here to get the 
bus back home. No problem they say, should have a tow here within half hour. 
Cool.
Decided to call the wife, woke her up and she got friggen' pissed.
As I was on the phone with her, AAA called back and said their tow truck 
couldn't tow me because I was too close to the Benicia bridge!!! What the 
f*ck!!! CalTrans had to do the job. Screw them. I got off the phone and 
decided to take a second look at the plug situation.
After further inspection I noticed the threads were in ok shape. So, I pull 
#1 plug out, which I knew was good. It threaded right into the #4 hole that 
shot out. Damn, I felt relieved. It didn't ruin the head. So I cleaned up the 
threads on the old #4 plug, and it threaded right into the #1 hole. Sweet I 
thought. I jumped in and the bus fired right up. Although it wasn't running 
like it used to. I think a cracked the head, maybe a valve. I pulled the plug 
back out of #1, checked the gap, reinstalled it, fired up and got the hell 
out the area. On the way to Vallejo!!!
By that time, my buddy Tony was there and we took off to make it to the show. 
We got to the gate, sat in line for about 15 minutes. Tony was in front of me 
by a few cars and as we enter the gate I see him turn around and head out to 
the parking lot. Again, what the f*ck!!
I get there and they say oh, the swap gate is around the other side. By the 
way, thanks for the signs and that the gates opened an hour earlier. Sucks 
for us.
So, I made it in finally, sold tons of parts and made good money.

Decided to pack in early so I could check out the show. Saw most of the 
regular Norcal people and hung out with a few for a while.
Checked out the swap, not too much out there left for the pilfering. 
Car show area was lots of watercooled and Cal-look bugs. Not too many busses 
out there. Saw an interested 15-window with a hatch top in it. Not sure what 
that was about. I couldn't figure it out. Coupla early single cabs, two 
high-roofs, a few deluxes, no barndoors, and a few other misc. type 2's 
running around. 
All in all a good day, except for the engine problems.

Hope everyone else had fun and enjoyed the Vallejo weather and scenery.

Dave Barnes
63 15-window deluxe
60 ragtop bug

**1999 Dodge Dakota for sale if anyone interested**
