From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>,
Date: Mon, 6 May 2002 11:11:21 -0400 
Subject: RE: [VB] Weird Valve Adjustment

Sorry for the slow reply, I took the weekend off for checking e-mail.

It seems a waste of time and effort to weld a cam since stock new ones are
so cheap.  Also why are there strict "rules" for trade in cams that need to
be a "rebuildable core", if a lobe is toast then it is a bad core.  If each
used cam was to be welded and ground again then the trade in core rules
would be much more slack.

Like reground lifters.  I know no one welds these and grinds them.  When
resurfaced the lifters will be a little bit shorter than before.

Unfortunately I do not have a reground stock cam to compare against a new
stock cam at this time, but when I do I will be sure to mic them out and see
if a difference does exist.

Normally it is just a better investment in my opinion to get a new stock
cam.  

Addressing the V-8 crowd, yes the cam "bottoms" can be ground off more to
provide lift at the top.  There was a great article about this in Car Craft
a little while ago and it was a good read.  Again hydro lifters are more
forgiving on this issue than solid lifters, just as Ray pointed out on the
pushrod geometry issue.


Take Care,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino"  
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" 


 

-----Original Message-----
From: Heath, Raymond E [mailto:raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com]
Sent: Friday, May 03, 2002 6:28 PM
To: Adrian Pillow; Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)
Subject: RE: [VB] Weird Valve Adjustment


Wow Adrian, where do you get your reground cams from? All of my reground
cams come back welded and then reground to "STOCK" lobe dimensions. That is
the correct way to do it. When I was doing Chevy and Mopar, if someone
offered me a reground cam the way you described, I'd chase them around the
counter with it! How could you possibly set up correct geometry with a thing
like that? Especially if you are using modded rods, stroked cranks, or
barrel spacers. You must have at least one thing you can depend on being the
correct height. Please tell me where you get those undersized cams so I can
warn people off.

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights


-----Original Message-----
From: Adrian Pillow [mailto:Apillow(-at-)manh.com]
Sent: Friday, May 03, 2002 8:00 AM
To: Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)
Subject: RE: [VB] Weird Valve Adjustment


>reground cam (web-cam), <

With a reground cam the outer diameter is smaller than a stock cam.   Lift
can be higher than stock on the lobe side, but be "thinner" on the off-ramp
side.  Basically lift and duration/profile have nothing to due with the
outer diameter of the cam.  A lot of the V-8 cams are shallow re-grinds like
this, but with hydro lifters it really does not matter since manual
adjustments is not a factor. 

This could effectively cause the lifters to sit farther into the case due to
the narrower cam.  I would suspect at worst just a couple mm's.  Nothing
drastic or it should have been a "used up" cam where the hardened lobes
would have been worn through.

Of course it could be that lifters are shorter than normal as well... Or
just a combination of both scenarios compounded together. 

Granted WebCam has a great reputation so I doubt the cam is ground down too
much.


Hope this helps,
Adrian

Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino"  
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" 




---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
