Date: Tue, 04 Mar 2003 08:49:37 -0500
From: Dan  Henry <danhenry(-at-)indiana.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Help a former list member get a Ph.D.  

Dear Folks:

 

Some of you old-timers may remember me as a member of this list, which I
left, with some sorrow, after rolling my newly-restored 71 Station Wagon,
Gumby the Wonderbus. I am completing my Ph.D. at Indiana University, and I
am engaged in a study of online communities.  Over the past year or so, with
the permission of the admins, I have been analyzing ten thousand or so
messages to the list, with an eye towards applying a psychological theory
that examines how a structured community or setting exists (or does not
exist) online.  This theory, called Behavior Setting Theory, has been widely
studied in face-to-face settings, but has never been applied in an organized
way to an online setting, like the Type 2 list.
 
Although I can gather much information from the messages, because the idea
of the theory is to examine how physical objects are related to how people
behave, I need some more information about that.  I have decided to ask you,
in the form of a survey, for some data about that, as well as to ask what
you get out of the list by being a member.  I will make a copy of my
findings available to anyone on the list who wants to download it after I am
done- it makes for some pretty interesting reading, if I do say so myself.

Some questions and answers:

1. So, where the heck is this survey anyway?

You can find it at http://www.indiana.edu/~spedk305/surveyIntro.htm

2. What kind of questions will I ask?

They are pretty straightforward and clear, but you can always either not
answer a question or e-mail me for clarification.

3. Is this an elaborate plot to somehow send me SPAM?

No, it is not.  I will not ask you to enter your name, e-mail address, or
any other identifying information.  There is a study sheet on the first page
of the site that will explain the details of the study more fully, as well
as the anonymous nature of the survey.

4. How long will you be collecting information?

Because all good things must come to an end, including, mercifully, this
dissertation, I am hoping to have enough data from you folks by the end of
March.

Thank you from the bottom of my (formerly) oil-leaking heart for helping me
out in this endeavor. You will be making a real contribution to the field of
educational psychology and to a better understanding of how lists like this
organize themselves and function.
 
Dan Henry
