Date: Thu, 28 Jun 2007 08:54:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bumper replacement

my senior year in high school i had a isuzu pickup truck and i seen the girl coming up from behind me in a lumina putting on her lipstick in the rear view mirror but my only reaction was to throw my arm across my buddy to hold him back from the impact..
  i broke his nose i swung so hard but it kept him from hitting the dash...the cops said...
  i told him to wear the buckle but he refused.. he wasnt mad at me he knew it could have been real bad for him if that wouldnt of happened..
  the girl should have fixed her face before leaving...shouldnt they all though.. and make all there cell calls.. course back then we didnt have cell phones.. in school LOl we were lucky to have a phone in our room at home LOL..
   
  i dont have a rear bumper on my bus but my tow hitch does the same purpose and acts as a bumper or yeah all a bumper would do in that situation... she must have hit me at 35mph or so... trashed my truck really bad ...
   
  i now leave room in front of me always enough to go to either side.. my wife does the same thing now..
  i dont wanna get trapped in there... in this case.. i had someone in front of me and they rolled back on me closing my gap and exit from the danger i seen approaching..
  i knew she was gonna hit me i just didnt think it was gonna be that hard .. what a bang that was.,. if that would have happened to my bus i would have been co pilot with the engine..
  chai
  dont forget to BE SAFE

ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com wrote:
  In a message dated 6/28/07 11:18:29 AM, CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net writes:


> The best defense is keep an eye in your rear view mirror when
> stopped--be ready to go when you see a nose dived vehicle coming at you,
> and you hear locked up rubber sliding on the pavement.
> 
> 
I was stopped at a red light in my Bugeye when a Ford wagon rear-ended
me...The guy claimed he didn't see me... 
I suppose if I was really alert I could have avoided him by running out 
into
the crossing traffic... ;-( 




Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E.





                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
   
   Define Your Happiness
   www.HappyKyndArts.org
