From: dave jersey <maduncledave(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 25 Mar 2003 21:17:57 -0500
Subject: SPDH running!

Hey y'all
The previously reported fuel pump problem wasn't the pump after all.  Turns 
out the block the pump sits on that the pushrod runs in was warped slightly 
and wouldn't allow the rod to return down after a stroke.  I fixed that by 
hammering on the rod to get it out and breaking the block, necessitating a 
replacement that I just happened to have in another engine waiting for it's 
turn on the bench.

Gettin' pretty good at replacing upright fuel pumps in place.  Note to self - 
don't put Nylocks on the side of the pump towards the fan shroud.  Limited 
wrench swingin' room there.

Without my trusty key turner, the lovely Crazy Auntie Sherry I had to do the 
duty myself.  The Tinkertoy grumbled to life immediately and settled into a 
fair idle.  Check dwell (51.8), set the timing (7.5 before with vacuum line 
off and plugged).  Rev her up to 2500 for the screamin' cam lobe break in.  
Sitting behind her holding the throttle open, I noticed she warmed up 
quickly.  Got downright hot back there sitting right behind the engine with 
all the proper tin directing hot air at my legs.

Smelling, listening, looking, smelling, looking and listening some more.  the 
spray paint I put on the tinware's cooking some.  After about 5 minutes, the 
temperature of the air seemed to drop some, still holding a steady 2530 RPM.  
I figure that was the oil cooler system kicking in.  15 minutes into it and 
there was a definite difference in the air temp, cooler still.  I figure the 
initial friction of a new tight engine had loosened some.  Another 5 minutes, 
and Crazy Auntie Sherry pulls in the yard jumps out of the truck and starts 
dancing around, she's happy the Tinkertoy's alive too.

All the while during the run in,  kept peeking at the oil pressure.  On 
startup straight 30w (didn't;t have any 20), at idle 40 PSI.  Initial run in 
before she got warm at 2530 RPM, 50 PSI.  Midpoint during the run in, about 
45, at the end, still 45.  At the idle dropoff after run in, HIOP was a solid 
25.  I'm happy with that.

Oil change immediately.  Some flakes, non-magnetic, most about the size of a 
.05 pencil lead, a couple 1mm square, again only a couple of those.  Mostly 
all small ones.  Again, I'm happy with that.

So now it's little doo-dads like swing axle boots, the remainder of the 
break-in driving, transaxle fluid change, and I think Everybus for an 
inaugural campout.

Seeya there.
Mad Uncle Dave
