Date: Thu, 10 Jan 2002 10:12:49 -0800
To: "Theodore Reshetiloff" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Aux Battery systems was  Charging Spare-Beckett's tome re Hella kit and wiring size

At 07:08 AM 1/10/2002, Theodore Reshetiloff wrote:
>     Now for my question. I have a 78' Westy with the 12/120volt fridge and
>I am getting ready to hook back up the aux battery. A PO removed the
>battery and simple snipped the wires. They are all there including the
>original relay, the ends have just been cut. I would first off like to know
>how much juice that fridge draws when it cycles and when it is not cycling?

It's somewhere around 5 amps continuous.  If it's cycling, obviously less 
but I doubt it cycles very much unless it never gets opened and was 
initially filled with frozen stuff.

>I want to know how big of a battery I should get to install. I dont want to
>put a huge AGM back there as I have enough weight in the rear as it is.

Understandable.  There is no easy answer to this question.  First of all, 
the best battery performance you can get for a given weight with low, 
continuous current applications like your fridge will be with flooded 
batteries.  Typically an AGM providing the same running time will weigh at 
least 25% more.  This advantage reverses itself with high-current 
applications because of Peukerts factor which gives AGMs the better 
power-to-weight ratio in, say, electric cars.  But to run the fridge, if 
weight is critical, go with a flooded battery.  I use a pair of Trojan 
T-105 golf cart batteries.  Flooded, true deep-cycle, 220 amp-hours, last 
for years if not abused (mine are going on five years old).  They do weigh 
about 110lbs though.

>Also with the factory relay would that not limit my charging rate to say
>15amps? And if so doesnt that mean it will take a lot longer to charge said
>battery?

Yes, a lot longer since you won't get anywhere near 15 amps from it, on 
average.

>If for instance I am running a 200 amp hour battery and I run it
>say totally dead then go to charge it at 15amps that will take how long?
>13hours? I am by no means a 12volt wizard here so perhaps I am missing a
>big part of the puzzle please help.

You are basically correct, unfortunately there isn't an easy way to improve 
the situation with the stock alternator.  You probably have either a 55 or 
70 amp alternator.  It can't supply that many amps continuously.  You have 
the load from the engine's electrical system plus lights, fans, or whatever 
else to take into account also.  30 amps to the second battery would be 
pushing it - I can't say whether your alternator would die an early death 
or not, but I would want to err on the side of reliability.

>      I don't want to over tax my alternator either but is there not a way I
>could at least up that charge rate to say 30 amps and still not hurt my
>alternator? I like to camp for days at a time and would love to be able to
>run my fridge and not have to run my engine for 12-13 hours every other day
>to keep up wiht the demand. Any ideas?

Sure, lots of ideas.  :)  First of all, replace your mechanical regulator 
with a solid-state one.  That alone will probably increase your rate of 
charge by increasing the regulated voltage.  But know that without a 
variable regulator there is no way your aux battery will charge as quickly 
as you want - the stock electrical system is designed to replenish a few 
amp-hours from the starting battery, not charge a large fully-drained 
deep-cycle.  The article Michael Benthin posted was very accurate IMO as to 
the problems involved.  Basically the charging current will be huge at 
first but taper off quickly to a few amps unless you raise the charging 
voltage.

You could install a second alternator dedicated to charging the aux 
battery.  Regulate it manually to charge as quickly as you need (without 
damaging the battery of course).

My course of action was to install solar panels on the roof.  If you 
covered the entire roof of your bus with solar panels, it would be enough 
to power the fridge almost continuously given 8 hours of good sunlight per 
day.  In mixed conditions it could double the length of time between 
recharges from two days to four.  I haven't filled out my entire roof yet, 
but I'm working on it.

I'm also looking into getting a more efficient fridge.  My goal is a 
chest-style, compressor fridge.  There are some good ones that draw only 
four amps, can freeze ice cubes easily while doing so and are very well 
sealed and insulated.  When I find a good deal on one, my 7.5amp, 
poorly-insulated side-opening fridge will be history.  With the two 
golf-cart batteries, solar panels, and some sunshine I should be able to go 
a week without starting the engine, which will be enough to keep me happy.

If you need more than a week, I would suggest getting a propane-powered 
refrigerator.

-David

