From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: ralitaco(-at-)juno.com, "Type2 List (E-mail)" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Jan 2002 10:36:46 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] More info on More desirable

Hi Jim,
Hopefully I can add my $.02 that may be valuable.
"All are the same price. I have a new motor in my 74 Bug to use."
The Beetle motor is not a direct fir into any of these busses.  The rear
hanger kit replaces the oil pump cover and places stress on the 4 oil pump
bolts that was never designed to be there.  Also most people end up with oil
leaking problems from around the pump.  
The Beetle can be used in the later baywindow vans though!
http://www.creativecarcraft.com/notforbug.htm  Some people frown on this
because the T1 is under powered for the bus, but the ROW (Rest Of World) VW
busses were offered with this option so it cannot be too bad...  When this
T1 motor is placed where a T4 used to reside there is no rear hanger needed
because the tranny is bolted in (not floating like in the 68-71 models) and
the torque from the T1 is not enough to destroy the tranny mounts which is
the reason the T4 has a rear hanger.

"70 Westy - No motor, new top, rusted dog legs, dent on front face"
Spartan interior compared to the others. No front disc brakes (started in
'71).  Rust means $ to fix it right.

"78 Westy - Exterior Fair, Interior good, motor leaking (-at-) rear Seal, no fuel
pump = not running"
FI (fuel injection) is a PITA for most people.  The bus 2.0 heads suck for
flow.  Hydraulic lifters suck for cam wear (see any of Jake Raby's posts for
better experience than me).  Great interior layout!  If you know how to drop
the T4 motor the FRONT (front of bus is front of engine) seal is easy to
replace and a $5 part...  Could be a blown cam plug if the oil is really
spewing out, total tear down needed.  I imagine if it has been sitting for a
while there will be more work needed than just a fuel pump.

"74 Sportsmobile - Straight up pop top, body & interior low end of fair,
ignition key missing = not running"
Ignition key is a PITA to replace but doable and fairly cheap.  In my
opinion this is the most "collectable" bus of the three just because it is
rare.  Granted interior parts may be a bear to find.  You would have to
elaborate on why the bus is in fair condition to see if the repairs are
worth it for your needs.

"PS- I am also new to the list, so if this is inappropriate for the List,
please accept my apologies and E-mail me directly. "
Welcome, and this is a perfect question for the list!


Good Luck,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochise"

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!

