From: "Messa, Corbett (IndSys, GEFanuc, NA)" <Corbett.Messa(-at-)gefanuc.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Jan 2002 12:14:12 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Paint Question

I am not sure what kind of stuff that POR 15 has in it, but it is not a rust
converter. It basically creates a non-porous covering over the rust or metal
and prevents anymore moisture from entering and causing rust. The problem
with the POR 15 is that you are not supposed to paint directly over it. Some
people have had luck with it by sanding it some. POR 15 recommends that you
use their special primer to paint over the POR 15, then use regular paint
over the primer. Are the spots that are spider webbing in the same area as
the POR 15? It could be that the new paint or primer is not getting good
adhesion to the POR 15. Some people that have painted over POR 15 could
probably respond and tell how they got the paint to adhere.

Corbett

-----Original Message-----
From: Michael Drouillard [mailto:drouillard_summit(-at-)hotmail.com]
Sent: Friday, January 11, 2002 12:11 PM
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: [T2] Paint Question


Hi,

I think your problem might not be the quality of the paint, but what you 
used as a base.  You mentioned that you sanded the rusty spots down to bare 
metal and then used por 15 (which is a rust converter) on the bare metal and

then painted overtop of it, right?  Well a while ago I was talking to some 
guy at my local flaps and he said that rust converting paint (of any 
manufacture) should only be used on rust because there are special oils in 
it that are supposed to seep into the rust to "convert" it and if there 
isn't any rust there to convert then the oil will just sit there on top of 
your paint.  I am not too sure about that one, but it seems to make sense to

me since the spider designs in the paint you described sounded like they 
were caused by oil underneath....  who knows, just wanted to toss my $.02 in

there.  Good luck!


Michael Drouillard - '72 Riviera affectionately known as "Murphy"

