From: "Edson, Larry OCH - Perot" <Ledson(-at-)chw.edu>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 11 Jan 2002 09:48:45 -0800
Subject: RE: Engine break-in: was Alternator functioning?

	-----Original Message-----
	Date: Thu, 10 Jan 2002 15:12:21 -0600
	To: "TYPE 2 LIST" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
	From: "Volkswagen Restorations USA" <volksfix(-at-)bellsouth.net>
	Subject: Re: [T2] Alternator functioning?

	    I think a larger issue here is the "Key" statement, "I'm not
ready to
	rev the engine up yet". Point being, you "DONT" want to let a new
engine
	idle at all. keep the RPM's - 1500 - 2000 for at least the first ten
minuets
	or so. The cam lobes and lifter heads, as well as the pistons and
cylinders,
	depend on oil sling for lubrication. Don't want to let it idle!
	    Keep the oil flying and the air cooling! I usually take a rubber
band
	and block the choke cam all the way on fast idle for ten or fifteen
minuets.
	After this run in you can check for any leaks oil or otherwise, let
it cool
	down and recheck the valve adjustment, before the road test. On the
road
	test be sure and don't "lug" the engine. No sustained high speeds
either,
	keep it in the lower gears, and the RPM's up, for the first few
thousand
	miles.
	    Don't forget to change the oil and adjust the valves at the
first 600
	miles. Regular maintenance after that.

I've had conversations with several different people about breaking in a new
engine and your approach is the most prevalent and consistent with others
who make a living with VWs.  The approach I'm following (advise from another
source I trust) may be breaking the rules a little bit but I think the
results are similar.  When I first started the engine I only had it running
long enough to prove that I had the timing and carb adjustment good enough
to establish an idle (about 2 minutes).  The next step (breaking in the cam)
I did this morning by driving to work (10 to 15 minutes) at RPMs in the 1500
- 2500 range.  I babied it to the extreme with no high RPMs and as little
load as possible.  When I get home I will let it sit overnight and check to
valves in the morning.  The next step (breaking in the rings) will happen
over the next 50 or so miles by driving to work (again over surface streets)
running it through a range of RPMs, speeds, and loads.  I've been told that
the best way to break in new rings is to put a load on by driving up a
reasonably long hill (a mile or so) so I'll be doing that over the next few
days as well.  After the 50 mile break-in I'll work my way up to longer
freeway trips to get to that 600 mile mark.  I have a deadline for that of
Feb. 9 because that's when I plan to take it down to L.A. for the toy & lit
meet and other weekend events. 

By the way, my light went out as soon as I left the driveway this morning.
One responder suggested that it would and another said it should go out
right away.  I think it might have something to do with the brand/model of
alternator.

Larry Edson
ledson(-at-)chw.edu
 O o\ /o O



