Date: Sat, 02 Jul 2011 01:15:23 -0700
From: Hall Stuart-Lovell <hall(-at-)dungeness.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Farewell and Welcome

We recently sold our beloved 75 ASI Rivera camper, so I'll probably be 
signing off the list. I'm not a mechanic, but I've enjoyed the 
companionship of the more mechanically minded, and gained useful 
knowledge with which to hire mechanics. We absolutely loved our bus, 
Corrina, but as aging parents with a teenage kid, we needed something a 
little bigger that we could cook in, so we've bought a little RV. I've 
owned many VWs in my life ('64 bug I was raised in and took off a cliff, 
'65 bug with a sunroof that rusted out from under me, '73 ghia that I 
sold when I went to graduate school, '69 bus my first husband kept, '73 
bug I sold because there wasn't room for my husband's shoulders when 
there was a carseat for the baby, and this last '75 bus we took to 
Oregon Country Fair for 11 years running). I could sit and swap VW magic 
stories for hours. It feels very odd to be without something in the family.

But, but, but... the story of where this wonderful bus is going made it 
a little easier. We had the bus on thesamba and craigslist and were 
getting quite a few calls. We're on the Olympic Peninsula so it wasn't 
easy for folks to get to us. Joey called from Seattle and told us that 
he had just asked his girlfriend's father for permission to marry her 
and been told yes. And in lieu of an engagement ring, he wanted to get 
her a bus because she loves buses. When he came out, he told us the plan 
-- they're planning a camping trip sometime soon and Joey is going to 
rent two adjacent spaces. He plans to park his new bus in one of them, 
and when she admires it, which he feels sure she will (it even came with 
a tent!), he's going to propose. If she's got any sense, she'll say 
yes... Joey seemed like a good sort, intelligent, straightforward, very 
much in love.

When we showed him the bus, I told him about the type2 list and he wrote 
it down. I told him that I'd be telling his story and that I'd be 
telling you guys to look out for him. He's new at buses, so help him 
out... though I'm sure you would even without this heartwarming story.

Thanks everyone... I'll miss this place, though I'm still part of it in 
spirit. I'm sure I'll still stop to talk to bus owners and I'll still 
always ask... you guys on the type2 list? No... well, you should be.

Hall
