Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Pete Stuart-Lovell
From: "Neal F. Jarvis" <njarvis(-at-)leaders.org>
Date: Sat, 2 Jul 2011 08:59:44 -0400
To: Hall Stuart-Lovell <hall(-at-)dungeness.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Farewell and Welcome

It's always nice to know that a VW you love is going to be with someone else
who will love it just the same or more.

My bus (Sami) came to us here in Maryland thru a girl who was a photo
journalist. She lived in Sami for four months while traveling from Ca to the
east coast then as far south as the Florida Keys them far north east before
dropping down to Maryland. At that point she didn't have the time or money to
return to Ca in Sami. So a friend of her said her parents always loved camping
in their old vans. They bought Sami and took him to a shop where the mechanics
put them thru a nightmare of sub-standard work and big prices. It took them a
year to get the bus back. They soon realized after spending several thousand
dollars that the bus still wasn't ready for them to play with comfortably. So
after another year passed they put him up for sale.

As the story goes my wife and I who own two Beetles where driving one day and
spotted a bus. I turned to her and said one day I am getting one. She turned
to me and said I know. You always say that. One more mile up the road and what
do we see but Sami Bus sitting lonely looking on the side of the road with a
for sale sign. This was a sign to me telling me I found my bus. It was a sad
looking faded red primer spotted bus with a yellow engine hatch. But to me
what a site. A project to end winter as spring was but weeks away. Now
mechanically Sami is doing well. A few cans if spray paint took care of
painting the nose to cover the primer. Another can took care of the engine
hatch and some serious buffing and Sami Is shinny red again.
I still drop in to show the past owners my progress with Sami. I have written
to the young girl who brought Sami from the west coast and sent her photos.
She sent me some she took along her travels.
This is what makes our VW's special.
We are not just owners of vehicles. We are the custodians or caregivers. Maybe
even curators is the better term.
Be grateful you found a guy like Joey as you may continue your love of your
bus thru his new spirited role as the caregiver. I know it has worked that way
for me. I had also gained a friend once when I sold my 67 beetle I had for 12
years. Russ has now had her for 13. We have been great friends and still go to
VW events together.
It's just how we and our VW's roll.

Happy Holiday and thanks for sharing your story.

Neal

71 Westfalia
71 Super Beetle convertible
73 Super Beetle sunroof



Neal

Sent from my iPhone.
Please forgive the typos!

On Jul 2, 2011, at 4:15 AM, Hall Stuart-Lovell <hall(-at-)dungeness.com> wrote:

> We recently sold our beloved 75 ASI Rivera camper, so I'll probably be
signing off the list.


> Thanks everyone... I'll miss this place
