To: buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 2 Feb 2003 15:40:06 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: good news, bad news

70 westy, Right Front wheel...
inner and outer bearings both replaced a few months ago... at that time,
noticed upper wheel cylinder was leaking. i decided to hold off til i got
tax return to replace it along with everything else... well, i got a new
one about a month ago, but hadnt gotten around to putting it on... now i
hear an intermittent clunking noise (previously posted) that is getting
worse. weather forcasted sat/sun to be warm so i planned to tear it apart
then to investigate and install new upper wheel cylinder and brake shoes
(thinking the noise MIGHT be nothing more than a loose shoe)... but as
luck would have it, i came down with a $*&^%*^$*^$(&^% FLU and wasted
these warm days. though i wasnt completely back to normal, i decided i
needed to tear the wheel apart just in case it was something simple and
try to get as much done as i could so i would have less to do once it was
cold tomorrow. i couldnt figure out where to pry with the screw driver to
test the ball joints, but at one point when it was all off the wheel, i
grabbed the backing plate and tried wiggling it... i think i hear the
lower ball joint clunking a little... oh well... so much for an easy
fix...

good news is that i have replaced the upper wheel cylinder and the brake
hose (THANKS MARK!!) and i am ready to put the new brake shoes on... but
i have decided to replace the lower wheel cylinder while i am here (looks
like it may be leaking now, although i wasnt sure)... like i intended
once i got the tax return, anyway. now if only the rest of the money
would get here so i could get this finished!!! as long as my ex continues
to let me use his car, i'm not in too much of a hurry to get it done,
since i cant finish today, anyway (no money and the VW parts places arent
open on sunday)... i could, if i didnt want to get the drum turned and
the lower cylinder replaced...

question: do i REEEEEALLY have to remove the wheel bearings and all that
GREASE from the hub to get the drum turned? i know, the answer is going
to be yes... i was just HOPING i wouldnt have to take the bearings, races
and all that grease out again. is there an easy way to get the black
grease gasket out (cant remember if that is what it is called, actually)?
when putting a new one in, does the flat side go to the inside of the
vehicle or the outside? my ex put it in so that when i took the wheel
off, the spring side was facing me (inside of wheel facing me), and the
spring had popped out and was on the spindle...

waving with grease under my nails again,
chris
70 westy
ps~sorry for the rambling, my brain is still a little spacey from the
flu...
