From: "Joel Lusby" <jplusby(-at-)attbi.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 3 Feb 2003 08:30:15 -0700
Subject: Re: Re: [T2] setting up eber. heater

>You do have to cut a couple holes in the bus for the exhaust and intake
air,
>then a couple more for the duct to go past the gas tank.

>If you want to be creative, you can find places inside the passenger
>compartment such as under the rear seat, jump seat, under the dash, between
>the front seats, build a small seat and put it behind the front passenger
>seat.

>Here is a good web site...
>http://www.72camper.com/gasheate.htm

>> We are going to put an eberspracher bn4 in our 72 bus, but we dont have
>> anything from the end of the heater to send the heat into bus. How were
these
>> heaters suppose to be pumped into the bus and anybody have these parts or
>> should we fabricate something. Does it go through the gas tank area and
if so
>> what is the safest way, thanks

My reply:
I am only one step ahead of you Rick. I bought a bn4 2 weeks ago that was
removed from
a '72 westy. Just a few comments from what I've learned so far. That web
site (above)does have some
very helpful pictures. The pictures of the unit is of an early model BN4 and
the installation pics are
for the late model. The wiring and ductwork is different. From what I here,
the later model took
care of some safety issues.

The online manual at the conservatory is very difficult to make out the
pictures and also it appears to be for the early model only. Does anyone
know of an online source
for installation of the later model? The easiest way to tell is that the
early model fuel goes from
the fuel pump to a fuel regulator and the later model goes directly from the
fuel pump to the
fuel injector next to the spark plug. Apparently the fuel pump on later
models take care of
the fuel regulating task.

Beware, the installation is different for the late and early models although
the same in theory.
Ducting and wiring is different. The late model has 3 duct pieces coming out
of the unit and into
the passenger compartment. One adapts the round end of the heater to the
rectangular piece that
goes on the firewall. The next piece goes between the firewall and the
passenger compartment. This
middle piece has a bi-metal switch and thermostat that is set my the
"bowden" cable by the driver.
The bimetal switch is wired to the heater so that when the heat setting
selected by the driver is reached,
the switch turns off the heater. When the temp gets below the setting the
heater switches back on.
The third piece comes out of the hole behind the back seat and into the
passenger area and goes from
rectangular into round.

Does anyone have a simple (not wiring diagram) drawing of the electrical
connections?
Joel, '71 in Denver
