Date: Sun, 18 Aug 2002 10:10:27 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <Doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Do I have to pull the engine?

THE PROBLEM:  On my 1976 Westy, when the mechanic returned my rebuilt type4 
back into the engine compartment, he left out a piece of engine tin 
(021-119-358U Warm Air Duct, Rear Right)   After the bus escaped from his 
garage, I found the tin in a box inside the bus, and identified it using a 
diagram at Bus Boys. I want to put this piece of tin where it goes myself, 
if possible, without taking the bus back to the mechanic. Personal reasons.

THE QUESTION:  I'm asking the group if they think I can fit in this piece 
of tin without dropping the engine.    Should I even TRY to do it with the 
engine in place?

I know that I can drop the engine and take off the fan housing and 
alternator cover plate and air flap assembly and probably the cylinder 
cover plate, and probably the intake manifold tubes on the curb side 
cylinders, and probably the injectors, and then fit the warm air duct in 
behind the alternator, and then replace all the aforementioned parts. If I 
drop the engine I also have to disconnect the exhaust system and the fuel 
supply and the electricals and then the mechanicals, and this seems like a 
pretty advanced problem for a first-timer. If I have to do all that in the 
back yard, I think I'll take it back to the mechanic.

REFERENCES:  My Bentley  shows this piece of tin on page 20, Figure 7-2, 
item #8 "right rear air duct."

AND here is a web site diagram, in addition to Bentley.

Web site address    http://www.bus-boys.com/

Home page left hand  menu, 5th category down:  Select and click    "Air 
Cooling System Parts - Type 2 & Vanagon 72-83"

When that page opens up:  scroll down to "Engine Tin Air Cooled Engines 
1972 through 1983"

In that diagram, find  engine tin item  "V"

If you click on "V" you get    "021-119-358U Warm Air Duct, Rear Right, 
Used 1972 to 1979 All"

This is the piece of tin I have to put into the engine.

BOTTOM LINE: Does anyone think I should try it without pulling the whole 
engine?

Doyt Echelberger in Ohio   USA





