Date: Sun, 18 Aug 2002 15:31:35 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: dougz2 <dougz2(-at-)msn.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 70Westy enginerecommendations


> > I have a 70 westy with a dual port 1600 in it. Since I have had it I have
> > had problems with leaking oil and overheating. I think alot of it has to
>do
> > with the extensive driving I do
>
>Extensive driving is not a cause of engine failure, Extensive driving with a
>poorly timed engine, missing engine tin, leaking oil and missing engine
>compartment seals, clogged fan housing etc. causes engine failure.
>
> > and lead foot
>
>I have a VERY heavy foot, but I have everything that the factory intended to
>be on my engine on my engine, I can drive the heck out of my bus for hours
>on end and when I stop I can lift the engine lid and FIRMLY grab the
>dipstick and hold it for as long as I want, no heat at all.

I have to agree with this. I drove a '72 Super Beetle in Italy for a couple 
of years that had a stock 40 HP engine. It was just as overloaded as a 
1600cc in  a Westy.

When I bought it I cleaned the grease and dirt off of the engine, replaced 
any missing tin or seals (used parts), and tuned it until it ran like a 
clock. This was my first VW and this process took a couple of months of 
studying Muir and Bentley (my only English sources). I would come home from 
MP duty the whole night before, sleep 6 hours, and then spend the remainder 
of my free time (until 5 PM when i had to leave for work again) tinkering - 
take it apart, clean it with kerosene, wipe it dry and reinstall the tin.

I ran this car from one end of Italy to the other with my foot on the 
floor. It would cruise at 65-70 mph with the 1200cc geared tranny (that is 
geared LOW). Never a problem - just maintenance. We towed all sorts of cars 
with this Beetle and that included a US spec Ford Bronco II 4WD for 40 
miles during mid-July mid-day heat. Revs up to keep the fan blowing good.

The engine lasted for a long time (couple of years until I sold it) and 
eventually died from a pulled head stud that allowed the cylinder to head 
joint to leak and the hot gasses ate away at the cylinder. I put well over 
25k miles on this engine and I do not know the true mileage on the car - 
though that was over 100K miles. It was tuned so well that I kept a grey 
soot on the inside of the exhaust pipe when I ran it on leaded gas (which 
was usually). It would start in the snowy mountains when we took it there 
to go snow skiing so easily... I would lean in and pump the gas three 
times, set the heater to 100%, and bump the key. It would start right up, 
idle fast until the electric carb choke would back off a bit, and in only 
10 minutes or so while we changed clothes - it would bet toasty warm 
inside. Had a great heater 'cause the cooling system had no leaks and 
everything was in good shape.

Like Doug and so many others have said: get your engine right, do the 
maintenance yourself and do it right, and treat it right and you can do 
ANYTHING with your VW.

They have limitations (like speed) - but durability isn't an issue until 
you get towards 100K miles. Then rebuild it and go again. Keep it stock 
(unless you do small things like Petronix or baby Dells or a simple 
extractor exhaust). Most aftermarket parts aren't as good as the OEM stuff 
but with 30 years of age sometimes you have to replace it...
Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


