Date: Mon, 19 Aug 2002 01:28:05 -0500
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: <ten_guitars4me(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Is there a EZ way to clean the tank?

On 8/18/02 11:41 PM, "minor35(-at-)juno.com" wrote:

> Try a bottle of Chevron Techron FI cleaner and a couple of fuel filters.
> I use a 92 Ford  FI Crown Victoria filter on my Westy and its about five
> times the size of the stock VW.
> It also has a check valve so nothing washes back into the tank.

In my own experience it will never come clean but over time (a really really
really long time) you can go from hourly->daily->weekly->monthly occurrences
of the fuel starvation problem you are experiencing.

To do this you need to install a cut-off valve between the tank and square
filter and after the valve a 2nd filter that you can clean (usually comes in
the glass variety).  Leave the "real" square FI filter in place as a backup
filter.  You'll need some extra fuel line and have to find a place to hide
and protect the filter so it doesn't get smashed by a rock.

All this said, your tank is probably really rusty and it will only take a
small amount of rusty powder to blip the engine forcing you to pull over.
The best solution is to remove the tank and clean it properly:

- roll chain inside around inside it to loosen the rust
- wash with a 50% muratic acid + 50% water mixture to remove the rust (VW
workshop manual recommends 20% acid but go to town if you can't see anything
silver inside to begin with).
- POR 15 tank kit to finish the job
  - degreaser to remove any sludge the built up (a miracle solution)
  - metal ready to coat the inside for the next step
  - coat with tank sealer so it will last forever (at least until it rusts
out from the outside or they drastically change the gas formulation).

Paint the outside of the tank while you have the chance.  Although it's
totally out of sight, rust will form as spots when air and moisture find a
way inside the tank area from the underside of the bus.  It's not sealed
there it should be although there may be a reason for this.  I've only see
one bus in the junkyard that had a foam gasket where the fuel pickup and
return line protrude.

On 8/18/02 11:05 PM, "Mike Benthin" wrote:

> Well, that is funny you should suggest that. Somewhere in the past, the BUS
> had someone cut the top right over the sender...I just fixed that hole! So the
> fix is still new; I could 'un-fix' that I suppose. And a Shop Vac could not
> handle that I suppose? The spark that is...

Funny how the VW workshop manual even suggests cutting into the body to
change sender. Brings a tear to my eye.

I don't see how your are going to effectively remove the rust and sludge
from the roof the tank.  True, water floats to the bottom but with all that
air up at the top it's probably just as nasty there.

I suppose while looking through the sender hole you could disconnect the
fuel lines and flush something through that you could monitor the progress
of. If you can easily unfix the access hole go for it.  It may improve the
situation enough for your to drive it more regularly.

I don't go telling people to go ahead and remove the tank lightly because
it's a lots of work and you have to dump a lot of acid but it's guaranteed
to eliminate the problem.  Anyone pulling engines every weekend or for a
living would have no problem with this task, but for novices it's a lot of
work, especially if you only have weekends, and you'll need a 2nd car to get
around in he meantime.

Good luck!

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Austin, TX

