From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2003 23:40:51 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Legal assistance in Cincinnati

From: "cdavid" <pandiva(-at-)earthlink.net>
> If only we got ours from you.

I'm sorry to hear how things went for you.  "Pigs in a poke" are rather
popular down here, too.

I use to be a licensed vinyl mobile home skirting installer, as a matter of
fact, the _only_ actually legally licensed installer in the Coastal Savannah
River Area (CSRA).  Out of about a half dozen or so "installers" in the
area.

"Skirting" is the brick, block, wood, metal or vinyl panels that you place
around the open bottom of a mobile home (as opposed to "underpinning", which
is the subfloor under the home that covers up the joists).

I went the whole hog into it, uniforms, the license, developed 12+ specialty
tools for the industry; and I was the only guy installing the skirting
according to the manufacturer's instructions.

Which is important if the customer wants that 25-year skirting warranty to
be valid; but even more important if the customer doesn't want the
manufacturer of their vinyl-sided mobile home (okay, "manufactured house")
to void the warranty on their entire home because of an improper skirting
installation.

I was the only installer who gave a written and signed 5-year warranty on my
installation work, in addition to the manufacturer's warranty on the
skirting.  But my competitors, and the mobile home dealerships, put me out
of business in less than 4 years.

To do the job right, it took me about 8 hours to skirt a 14' x 70' home.  My
competitors were doing them in 1.5 hours.  I charged about $300.00 in labor,
plus the high quality materials for a job, my competitors charged $75.00 in
labor (materials were sometimes provided by the dealerships).

Things came to a halt for me when I was confronted with dealerships who
asked for kick backs on each job, AND wanted me to do my quality work for
$75.00-$100.00 on each job.

BUT... (here's the part kind of related to the topic)

Sometime during my frustration with the quality of competitor's work and the
way that they were ripping off unknowing mobile home owners, I wrote a
Buyer's Guide that walks a newbie to skirting through the entire process,
and in a format that they can carry outside to use while they watch their
home being skirted.

It never sold ($8.00), but after I closed down the business and got on the
web, I added it as a download to our family website figuring that someone
might find it and drive some incompetent installer nuts.  It now gets
downloaded on a regular basis from our family website (www.melas.org).

In July, it was downloaded 1,926 times (averages 1700+ each month).

Sweeeeeeet! :O)

Caveat Pedarius!

TTFN - Mike Jackson
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
