Date: Mon, 21 Jul 2003 10:30:33 -0400
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Popping out of gear

In a message dated 7/21/2003 6:56:39 AM Eastern Standard Time, fbiffath(-at-)mailingsolutions.com writes:

> I am having extreme issues with my 66 popping out of gear.
> Where do I start to look? 
> TIA                Kind Regards,
> 
> Frank E Biffath III

Look in your wallet for money and your schedule for time.   

Odds are the tranny needs rebuilding, 
as rebuildt tranny costs ~300 or 400$  ?  for the center section plus shipping.

Installation: I'd book at least a whole weekend for if you do it yourself, depending on how much of this you have done before, and how much else needs doing or you feel like sprucing up. 

Doing the tranny in Stephen Gutknecht's DC it took two full days for the two of us (he had pulled a motor before, but not tranny), and didn't do anything to the motor, but did new RGB Bearings and replaced lots of seals and cleaned a bunch of parts.  Taking the shift linkage apart was a PITA.  definately get the front bolt loose and pull the rods apart first if you can.   soak in penetrating oil at least.  every day.  Sometimes the bolt breaks off and you have to grind the collar apart and replace it.   A lot of the time involved is stuck fasteners and cleanering off gunk.   Oh, clean the RGB bolt threads out before reinstalling, you should be able to thread them in by hand, as cross threading is a serious nono.

If you find a good used tranny with RGBoxes on it, and don't worry about all the other stuff, it shouldn't take more than a day.

you can call shops for prices of installation (including swapping your RGBoxes over, ?? new bearings in them while you are at it add $$ for parts and labour.   As the rear brakes have to come apart, replace anything bad in them at the same time.  also new axle boots, wheel seals, gear oil, etc.  Replace shift bushing most definately, and seals for shift rod. shift coupler.  It really helps to have a friend around to help put the tranny in, and pull it out.  

Then again while the engine and tranny are out you can replace any seals, grommets,fuel line, gas sender, etc that are now easy to get to.  

Definately clean the engine compartment and under tranny/engine, around RGBoxes *before* removal.  (scrape big chunks of crud off with a wooden stick first, spray well with simple green, wait a few hours, pressure wash) If you get anal you can clean and paint the axle tubes and brake backing plates, or even powder coat them like Eric and Barb did (mmm, very nice.  I replaced my axle bushings (either side of spring plates, so 4 in total, dust with bay powder)and painted my spring plates.   mark location so you put them back splinewise the same!

As the engine is out, you might check/replace the main and oil cooler seals, if it has been a while or there is any seepage.  

Don't worry, it is not as bad a project as it seems, but do plan ahead.

Then again, it could be a badly adjusted shifter or bad shift coupler.  If it just started you may not have damaged the tranny.  How long has this been happening?
