Date: Mon, 21 Jul 2003 12:29:54 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,Buskatiers <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
Subject: Trip To Monterey

I returned from Monterey CA last night, exhausted but in one piece.  I was 
up there for a week of training on how to build and teach about underwater 
Remotely Operated Vehicles (ROVs), I drove the DC the 850 miles round trip 
and with the exception of difficulties in leaving, it went great.

Difficulties leaving
1. Wednesday - My CV broke, I had the replacement CVs in the DC and had 
planned on replacing them on Saturday
2. Thursday - Replaced the CVs
3. Saturday - Had to remove 7 dead opossums from under the house.
4. Saturday - Got a flat tire
5. Sunday - Had to get to a tire store to replace the tire.
6. Sunday - Missed an interchange from the 5 to the 134, got off and as 
getting on the 134, the end came off my throttle cable.  Fixed it with a 
clamp I had in my parts kit and 30 minutes later was on the road.
7. Sunday - About 30 minutes after the broken cable was fixed, I was in 
bumper to bumper traffic on the freeway.  A woman in a Volvo rear ended 
into me when she looked back to her baby daughter in the back seat.  She 
bent my muffler, deck lid and apron, all just a little bit.  I could see 
she was having a bad day (crying baby in the back seat, just laid off and 
husband filed for divorce) (got her life story babbling in 30 seconds).  I 
told her to forget about it, we're both having bad days, so lets just 
forget about it and see if we could salvage the day.  This will come full 
circle the following Sunday.

Once I shook off being rear ended, the remainder of the trip went 
great.  Hwy 1 is not the way to go when you are in a hurry.  90 miles of 
2nd and 3rd gear.  I got it into 4th once, but at that point the wind was 
so high, I kept it at 40 mph.

I got out all along and took photo after photo.  At one point, I stopped 
and parked behind a '63 Kombi that looked all "hippied out".  The license 
plate was California "PHISH N".  Let's suffice it to say that this guy was 
out there.

I got to Monterey around 8:45pm, almost 9 hours after I left.

The week was great, tons of information, jammed packed sessions, some to 
9pm and one night we brainstormed until 1am.
They took us on tours of Moss Landing Research Labs, Monterey Bay Aquarium 
Research Institute, Monterey Bay Aquarium.
Most of our time off came at the end of long days.

Return home, the trip went great, until I passed Gaviota.  I took 101 down 
to skip the 90 miles of 2nd and 3rd gear, only to get into a Santa Barbara 
Traffic Jam that went for 60 miles of bumper to bumper traffic in 90 degree 
heat and no breeze.

While stopped in traffic in the freeway and the heat, I turned around to 
open the window behind me and my foot slipped off the clutch and I slammed 
into the van in front of me.  Luckily enough it was an older aerostar with 
a full metal bumper.  The woman just looked at her bumper and the little 
paint left on it and said "don't worry about it, lets go".  Never seen 
things come back to me so quickly.

I've uploaded about 10% of the photos that I took while gone.  They can be 
seen at

http://www.dolphinsci.com/ROV/Rov1.htm

Scott
'60 DC
