From: Wayne Berry <wayne(-at-)xcache.com>
To: "'vintagebus(-at-)type2.com'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 21 Jul 2003 22:04:06 -0700
Subject: Vintage Meet Trip Report

Left work at 11:30 on Friday and went home to pack and wash the bus.  One
washing didn't get it clean enough, however there wasn't time for more.
Left at 1:00 for the Burger Meat in the U district in Seattle.  I have a 56
Volkswagen Kombi with a split case transmission that was designed for around
town deliveries.  Top speed is 50 mph, so I took the back roads to Seattle.
South down Chuckanut Drive, East out Hwy 2 to Sedro Wooley, then south on
Route 9, past Clear Lake, Big Lake Lake McMurray, Darringtown, Snohomish and
then to Woodinville.  From Woodinville traveled west on 522, onto Lake City
way, then down 35 th to meet up with Ken Madson at his house.  Total travel
time was three hours and fifteen minutes; compared to traveling on I-5 at 65
mph it took about twice the time.

Ken Madson, of the Bus Company, and I took off right away to the Burger
Meat, and the cars started to pack in.  About two hundred Volkswagens total.
I help the Kascade Kombis sell raffle tickets for the Dune Buggy that club
members built for the annual raffle.  The Burger Meat is the start of a
three day event, that includes the Vintage meet on Saturday and the Bug-In
at the Pacific Raceway on Sunday.  Since it takes me so long to travel from
Bellingham to Seattle, I couldn't participate in the Vintage meet unless I
arrived in Seattle the day before.  Ken Madson was kind enough to put me up
for the night after the Burger Meat, and in exchange I helped him on
Saturday in his booth.  Stayed up till 11:00 pm talking to Ken and his wife
Holly.

Ken woke me up at 5:00 am on Saturday, we volunteered to help set-up the
event and arrived there about 5:30, I was the forth person on the scene.  I
helped carry tables, set-up chairs and assist with the open of the front
gate.  The club was very organized and the people working had done this all
before.  They could have done it without me, however I enjoyed helping.
Gate opened at 7:30 to let shop cars and swappers in.  The line was 40 cars
long for the swap area with trailers of parts coming in, vendors where
coming from Montana, California, and Canada.  Swap area had a really good
turn out and I got two front doors for the 56 Kombi, a back seat, another
steering wheel, however no middle seat, maybe next time.   Helped Ken set up
his swap area and put my Kombi in the show as a commercial vehicle.  First
of the pedestrians started arriving at 9:00 am.

Ken and I took turns selling his parts and talking to people in the swap
area.  I got plenty of chances to look over everything and enjoy all the
bugs and buses people brought in.  Mine was the oldest van there, and it was
sort of disappointing that there were no barndoors.  Clara and I talked
about my bus and she gave me some really good pointers.  She is extremely
knowledgeable.

It was really hot (85 in the shade) in the afternoon and people just stopped
moving and the swap area died down.  Trophies where handed out and I tied
for second in the commercial vehicle division, there were seven of us.  Took
off about 4:00 to head for how, skipping the staff BBQ, and arrived at 7:30
same route back, but I stopped for dinner at Bam BBQ in Darrington.

Pictures:

<http://www.cattlepoint.com/dinaberry/images/wayne/2003ShorelineKombi_July18
/>

-Wayne
