From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 22 Jul 2003 09:14:50 EDT
To: JasonStarbird(-at-)att.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] engine heating up/timing question

the muir book goes by the engine case, but you should go by the distributor.  
 Time a 009 at 7.5 to 9 * BTDC.  That is one section of the muir book that is 
confusing and misleading. due to the cars being 30 years newer when the book 
was written.  Who has the original ditributor anyway?  AH,  check the timing 
with a strobe light and make sure the timing advances when you rev the engine.  

 Heat transfers at a rate proportional to the difference in temperature 
between the hot object (yr engine) and the cool object (the air).  Engines do run 
hotter when it is 100F  outside than a nice 60F (our current low) outside.

its okay for your motor to get about 220 (oil temps). this is warmer than we 
as humans really like to touch.   On a hot day spit on the engine block, like 
to the left of the generator stand.   if it sizzles the engine is well warmer 
than 212F and too hot.  If the spit evaporates w/o sizzling or just hangs out, 
your engine's cool.   I dunno the boiling point of spit, but not far away 
from 212F.

when the engine doesn't start does the starter turn round?  you checked for 
spark ala Muir?   if you suspect the gas is vapourising in the line make sure 
it is not touch the manifold (or anything that can get hot)  if a friend cranks 
the engine do you see gas at the filter?

what kind of driving gets it like that?  are you talking freeway driving or 
around town?   around town should NOT do that.  if freeway driving, slow down 5 
or 10 miles an hour.  Got a tach?   what rpms are you doing?   Do you know 
your compression ratio?  did you heads get flycut when you put new ps&cs on?   
was it shimmed?  higher compression ratio means more power and also the engine 
runs hotter.  Flycut heads unshimmed raised the CR.
how many miles on this top end rebuild?   double check the valve adjustment 
(ya I know you set them, just double check, if it's hot they can get out, 
better to check more on a new deal)

In a message dated 7/21/2003 9:04:05 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
JasonStarbird(-at-)att.net writes:

<< Hi All,
     I have a problem that is driving me nuts....1600 sp motor, has a
 UO133XXXX case number so I think it's a type 3 motor. all stock except for a
 blue coil, and a 009 distributor. I set the points gap at .016 and checked
 it with a dwell meter, right at 50% ...so i think that is good. The problem
 is that when the motor has been driven a while it gets pretty hot, and I
 think the carb, fuel line is vapor locking. it doesn't want to start when
 it's hot. I've tried messing with the timiong and i can make it run cooler
 by advancing it ..I think...the timing mark moving clockwise in the timing
 lght. , but then it pops and stuff under a load. I've tried setting it at 0,
 5, 7.5 and 10 degrees BTC, but it still is getting pretty hot. The John Muir
 book shows that motor should be timed at 0 degrees. Does that sound right to
 you? It's been really hot here, 100 plus or minus 3 so i know it will get
 warm, but i can't pull the dipstick out without burning my fingers. I just
 put new pistons and cylinders in this motor ( because the number 3 piston
 melted) so I'm trying to avoid doing it again....all of the tin is there. no
 thermostat. I need to get one rounded up and will before winter. Any ideas
 anyone? Something I'm not checking?
 Thanks in advance...or retarded?
 Jason >>
