From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "'Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 22 Jul 2003 14:12:39 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] single cab wood strips

The short slats are tapered as you would expect.  Realize that the
picture I showed on the web site of cut off slats is with the ruthmann
not pushed all the way forward.  With it on correctly, there is very
little space between the ruthmann frame and the cab wall.
Also, the ruthmann does sit on the slats but not all the way.  There are
tabs that sit directly on the metal bed right where the 4 clamps go
which is where the most pressure is applied for holding it in place.
The wood is not crushed after all these years.  Also note that these
slats are laminated in 2 to 3 foot sections.... not just one long piece
of wood.  The slats are riveted on.  Hey, when did we have that
discussion about when vw changed from screws to rivets?


David
Picture of lamenated slats: http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/64SO9.htm
Pictures of the electrical resto:
http://www.dsquared-dev.com/davem/64so9hydraulics.htm


Wade responded:
David,
No it is not typciall and the only time ive ever seen that is on special
models like the binz or the
tieflader since they were forced to modify the length of the slats. The
only reason i could think of
yours being cut (Assuming they havent been replaced some time ago) is
that it would make it easier
to clean back there in that tight space when trying to wipe/clean dirt
out/whatever in between all
those hydraulics and the rear wall. Those slats actually look too long
to me. Are the shorter ones
not visible in your picture, also cut off?

Does that whole hydraulic assembly sit directly on the wood slats or is
it slightly suspended above
it? If it does sit directly on the slats, are they crushed after all
that weight sitting on them for
all these years with the hyrdaulic oil leaking onto them, and in turn
loosened up the whole assembly
on the bed? Just curious.

-Wade
VW trucks only
http://dropgates.com


David wrote:<snip>
I noticed that end of the wood strip next to the cab were cut off square
and not tapered like at the
rear.  Is this typical?
