Date: Wed, 19 May 2004 11:49:09 -0500
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Battery Drain

Rus & All The Ships in T2.comLand:

In addition to the excellent advice Dave B. wroted - I'll also pipe in
on this one and suggest that you back up one step further and ensure
compatibility with your charging system (which may/mayn't be a
generator) and the battery.  If the battery construction style does not
match up with the voltage regulator's abilities, your battery will never
be fully charged and consequently die an early death.  By battery
construction style, I mean is it an old school "wet" or "flooded"
battery, or is it a more modern "maintenance-free" type?  Each type has
different charging voltage requirements.  Assuming someone hasn't gone
in and replaced your '71's generator-based system with a new and
improved alternator / VR combo, you'd also do well to make sure your
battery is fairly new and fully capable of being charged and holding a
charge.

Once your electrical foundation is known to be good and solid, start
running down the add-ons.  As Dave pointed out, some/many of the
accessories added on will induce a milliamp drain (the radio memory),
but it's milliamps x hours and that does add up, "especially" if your
battery has already got the proverbial
one-foot-in-the-grave-and-the-other-on-a-banana-peel, caused by (you
guessed it) charging system / battery mismatches.  I'd also suggest that
you put the battery on the external charger to give it a good
topping-off, and see what happens from there as an additional diagnostic
step...  A starting battery can only be deeply discharged ("cycled") a
couple of times afore it no longer starts accepting a full charge.

Probably all pretty much worthless advice from a bench-racing, electric
fuel pump using, hydraulic lifter'd, POR-15 painting, non-load range C
tired, Comp-u-fired DVDA dizzy (w/CDI box)on 45 DRLAs, 8.3:1 CR'd runs
great on 87, shamelessly Type4 motored bus pilot.  You know, all that
stuff that shoulda made my bus explode into a flaming heap years ago the
second the door was unlocked ;-)

YMMV however...

-jph
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
