Date: Wed, 19 May 2004 13:03:32 -0400
To: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Re: Synthetic gear oil okay?

>From: "MacArthur, Margaret" <Margaret.MacArthur(-at-)montgomerycountymd.gov>
>I am going to change my transmission fluid this weekend, just because I
>do not know the history of when if ever it has been replaced. I looked
>in the archives and it seems that others agree that it is a good idea to
>change it, even if it is not stated in the Bentley to do so at regular
>intervals. Do you all still agree? Is there anything I need to know or
>helpful hints.
>
>My main question is it okay to use Valvoline 80/90 synthetic gear oil?
>What are GL#'s I see mentioned in the archive posts? Are there pros or
>cons to synthetic gear oil?

The reason that some people are wary of synthetic is that it is often TOO 
slippery. So slippery that your syncronizers won't do their job and 
shifting can be "crashy". But don't shift like a race car driver and you 
should never have that problem. Syn oils do have measurably better 
lubrication profiles and heat tolerance.

If you don't know how old the oil is and suspect that it has been a while 
since it has been changed, I would suggest that you first change it to GL4 
80-90 hypoid oil. That is cheap (like $1-2 a quart). Run that in the bus 
for anywhere from 1 month to 1 year, depending on driving amounts. If there 
is crud in the tranny that clean oil should help pick it up and clean it 
out. Then you can change to synthetic if you want. (I use Mobil-1 for about 
$9 a quart). No use putting it in if your tranny is dirty.

You could go straight to synthetic if you want. Just be sure to take a nice 
ride at highway speed of at least 15 minutes before draining the oil. That 
will help get everything stirred up and will help drain any dirt in there.

I see you live in Maryland, very near me in Falls Church. Putting synthetic 
in my tranny made driving in the cold winter a non-issue. That is one 
benefit. I have noticed shifting to be a little easier (subjectively) and 
the bus doesn't balk as much when starting out initially.

I will echo the other fellows comments to make sure you take out the fill 
plug first. Two reasons: 1) The fluid will run out faster if the air can 
get in and 2) It is better to know that your fill plug won't come out 
before you drain all of your fluid out. Dont put the plugs back in too 
tightly either, they are easy to get fatally stuck in there or crack the 
case because they are pipe threads.

Good Luck,

Chris 
