Date: Mon, 21 Apr 2003 10:28:44 -0700
To: mathisbeth(-at-)bigfoot.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuses

BAD FUZES

Anything tarnished should be replaced as a matter of regular maintenance 
inspection.

Never use plastic bodied fuzes. Only ceramic. How to tell the difference, 
plastic will peal with a knife, ceramic will destroy the edge with a bit of 
a scrape.

GBC fuzes as original are best. The glass bodied types are very difficult 
to see to confirm the element by sight and cost more.

Any fuze can be verified with an ohm meter. No more than .5 ohm should be 
seen. You can't measure this with a $19.95 multimeter. Do check ohms 
through the test leads themselves and subtract that value. A good 
multimeter will have provision for setting zero through the leads giving 
true test readings at very small resistances.

Standard procedure for proofing a fuze box.

Remove ALL aftermarket, DIY wires.
Install GBC fuzes per design.
Test functions of all circuits.

I had a Beetle come in last week. Strange lights in the dash. No gen light 
key on. Gen light and brake light bright when running. Verify battery. 
Generator/regulator putting out over 14v. Turn signals inoperative. Removed 
three metal jumpers from fuze block, removed 6 glass fuzes. Removed three 
jurus rigus wires from various fuze positions. Removed and unhooked $20 
sticker garage sale radio/CD that was half hanging out of dash. Install all 
new GBC fuzes. Test. All functions nominal. 45 minutes

Same car. Running very foul, I mean, barely running. Comp test shows 2 dead 
cylinders and one weak. Adjust valves. No gaps everywhere. Comp test=GOOD 
SPEC AND BALANCE. Replace platinum plugs with stock plugs. Replace 
fancified clear dizzy cap, unknown rotor and points with stock items. HT 
wires test good. Fire it up, adjust choke, adjust mix. Change tar and 
varnish slury (oil). Test drive=nominal fuctions.

Long mushy brake pedal. Adjust shoes. Much better (higher) pedal but still 
falls under pressure. Told client thin shoes and other issues. Budget $300 
to $500 depending on some or all parts foul.

He's so lucky he didn't burn a valve it isn't funny. He's been driving it 
this way for the last 3 months since he bought it. How much you wanna bet 
he drives it until the brakes fail, then tows it to me or someone else and 
needs it next day. Hopefully, it will last long enough the next slury 
change will be due.

At 07:15 PM 04/20/2003, you wrote:

>So my question is this:  how do you tell a good fuse from a bad fuse?  I 
>pulled out my little metal "Sucrets" box of new fuses, and even those 
>looked kind of oxidized.  Is that bad?  Does it matter?  Is there a way to 
>test fuses so you know they are good?
