Date: Mon, 21 Apr 2003 20:06:48 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Michael Benthin (MUTS)" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] re help adjusting the hydraulic valves-BostonBob'stome

On Mon, 21 Apr 2003, Michael Benthin (MUTS) wrote:

> There appears to be a conception about oil filled lifters that G. Lyle
> could better explain as a physicist- that they are "solid", which cannot
> be true if they are to provide zero lash at any engine temperature or
> condition.

"Solid" lifters are those that aren't hydraulic, like the lifters in my
type 1 engine.

Hydraulic lifters are really very simple.  They are a cylinder of metal
with a piston inside.  The piston is retained by a snap ring and is pushed
outward by a spring inside.  The internal spring is weaker than the valve
spring, so the internal spring cannot actuate the valves by itself.  The
entire cylinder is pushed by the camshaft, and the end of the piston
pushes on the pushrod.  Without oil, the lifter piston would simply stay
still, as the lifter cylinder is pushed back and forth around it.

There is a small oil passage leading into the cylinder below the piston,
which allows oil to fill the cylinder under pressure from the oil pump.

Oil is incompressable, so when the cylinder is full it acts like a "solid"
lifter.  However, oil can flow in and out of the cylinder slowly through
the small hole, allowing the piston's position to adjust itself.  Every
time the valve is actuated a little oil comes out of the hole, but the
valve is open for such a short time that not much oil can come out.  What
oil does come out is replenished while the valve is closed.  The internal
spring makes sure that the lifter remains in its expanded position.

Problems occur when air finds its way into the lifter.  Since air is
compressable, the valve won't open as far as it would otherwise.  Another
problem is clogging of the small oil hole, which leads either to the
lifter not pumping up, or more rarely, to it not leaking down, causing
burnt valves.

George Lyle
