From: "John Baird" <jddlab(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Oct 2004 23:48:17 -0400
Subject: Auto Transmission troubles: ??  

	Ok, this is a follow up on my breakdown two weeks ago going to Fire on the
Mountain in GA.
Since then I have spent the last two weeks swapping out parts with spares
and buying a few new ones.
	Compression is 110 or better on all 4 cyl. No air leaks in FI found, Coil,
Dist, points, cond, wires, plugs, Aux air reg, ECU, AFC, Throttle, Fuel
pump, Fuel Pressure Reg, Brain, Muffler all have been swapped out with
spares.  Dwell and Timing check out.  Vacuum check also checks out.
	I think I have tried everything in the motor and I still have a slow
acceleration problem.  I can't get it over 40-45 mph.  Driving today to fill
the tank with High Test gas, I noticed that at 40-45 when I hit the gas to
find if I could get to cruising speed, the Bus eng revved up but slowed down
like it is being held back.  I did a "Stall Speed Test" according to the
Bentley manual to test the converter, this passed the test, and so it is not
the converter.  Result was 2000 rpm on the Tach, with a driver in the seat
the bus gas pedal, floored with the Emergency brake Set and the Brakes being
held keeping the bus still.  Scary, but only lasts a couple of seconds.
Bentley states if 1500-1600 RPM is all that is achieved then the converter
is bad, but if 1900-2000 is achieved then it is Ok.  Above the mark of 2000
RPM it could be a problem with the 1st gear one-way.  But I was right on the
mark of 2000rpm.
	Bentley Service manual Section 7 page 7 #16 has a section about Poor
acceleration. Top speed low despite good eng output.
	Anyone have an opinion here, it is welcome.  The tranny fluid is good, only
1 year old, correct level, I also checked the final drive hypoid oil, and it
is Ok.
	I think I have pretty much exhausted the problem being an engine issue, I
have looked for restrictions, and air leaks in the FI connections and have
none to report.
	But I seem to not be able to get into High Gear with my Bus, Is it motor or
Tranny issue?

Two weeks of trial and error, I think I may need someone smarter then I.
Getting burned out myself!
	Still stranded in the driveway, it does not look good for Octoberbus.
Missing you all.
Thanks for the support.
John Baird
