Date: Mon, 11 Oct 2004 11:30:07 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: NOS bus!

A friend at work just bought a 72 bus in amazing condition with 47k original miles. It was obviously well cared for and the stack of original receipts prove it. It's also interesting to see what parts failed early on. I'll probably write that up as a matter of interest.

About two days after purchase it started to leak gasoline all over the parking lot at work. Luckily it was only a bad hose and inappopriate clamp between the fuel tank and filter. Some new hose and fuel line clamp fixed that in a jiffy. Someone a long time ago replaced the fuel lines but they did a poor job by using the wrong size hose clamps.

A few days after that the engine died and I performed an inspection of the engine compartment looking for missing/cracked hoses, broken wiring, worn parts, etc.

I must say, after hearing all the complaining about FI models cluttering up the engine compartment. Nothing compares to the 72-74 models. Thank goodness there is no air pump in the way on 72's but the lack of an engine hatch above makes this bus a pain to work on. The mechanic my friend took it to last week obviously lied his ass off wrt the running condition in order to avoid working on it.

I had to redo the valve adjustment and regap the plugs that the mechanic screwed up. The bus is running now but it's a little pooped out. The mechanic said the ignition was fine but it wasn't: the cap is fried, the coil wire shows 0 ohms, the rotor is rev limiting and looks original judging by the receipts (it's worn too). The conderser has failed and the pernts are badly burned. The only good news was some grease was still on the shaft.

Given the lack of access hatch I'd like to pop in a pertronix while replacing these other parts. With the oil bath cleaner there is a lot of grunge on top of the engine. Rather than remove the distributor I'd like to simply rotate it. I can't see how to rotate the distributor much without the vacuum can hitting the breather box, then the oil bath air filter.

Advice?

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
