From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: scott(-at-)whoadragon.com, jfbrownx2(-at-)hotmail.com, cdetore(-at-)sbra.com,
Date: Mon, 11 Oct 2004 14:47:50 -0400
Subject: IT RUNS! IT RUNS!!

Hi Folks,

I'm wearing a permanent grin today, because I got my engine running again!  
I installed it on Saturday morning, hooked everything up on Saturday 
afternoon, did the final checks on Sunday morning, said a few prayers, and 
fired it up on Sunday afternoon.  It sounds great (much smoother and quieter 
than with the old heads), it runs smoothly, and it looks cool to boot.

Due to a lack of helpers, I did the install by myself.  Though it's the 6th 
ACVW engine I've installed, it was the first one I did completely solo.  In 
place of a floor jack, I created a hoist out of a pipe wrapped with rope  
put the pipe across the top engine hatch, run the rope thru a 4x4 tow strap 
around the engine, and turn the pipe with vise-grips and a pipe wrench to 
lift.  I put blocks under the engine as I raised it up, and once I got it 
even with the transmission mainshaft it slid right into place.

All the wires got hooked up correctly thanks to good labeling, and I built 
up oil pressure by running the starter with no spark plugs.  I discovered 
that my starter or solenoid or hot-start relay sticks, so I had a few scary 
moments as I ran back to disconnect the battery.  I also had a few scary 
moments as I realized I forgot to tighten down the hose clamps on the fuel 
rails  wet hoses, bubbling fuel, drips on the tin.  Once I got the engine 
started, it would idle but die as soon as the throttle was open  oops, 
forgot to plug in the air flow meter.  Then it would idle and rev up, but 
wouldnt go past 2500 RPM  timing was way too advanced, dialed it back to 
9* BTDC.  Got it to idle really smoothly, rev up nicely, and generally run 
really well all thru the rev range.

So, now I have to run thru a modified break-in procedure: the heads are new, 
but the bottom end is 25k miles old.  Ill run it a bit more with no load 
just to make sure everything is OK, then Ill take it out on the road and 
see how it drives.  After the first drive Im planning on changing the oil 
back to 15W-50 or 10W-40 for the winter, with a new filter of course!  Valve 
adjust, foam engine seal install, switched power to CHT gauge (now its 
always live), and a second (auxiliary) battery complete the picture.

Thanks to all who have helped with moral support, informational support, and 
parts supplying.  I could not have done it without the support of The Mighty 
List and with the support of friends who still think love and restoration of 
ACVWs may or may not be a diagnosable mental illness.

Best,
Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea" -- It runs! It runs!!
Asheville, North Carolina
