Date: Mon, 27 Aug 2007 09:54:28 -0700 (PDT)
From: Know One <knowonelse(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: going to CA for an extended period

>>> I am going to be moving to California for an
extended period of time for work.
I am trying to figure out what would be involved in
getting a car in CA. I imagine I need to get a CA
license? I would need to register the car in
 CA, and also get insurance there. Does anyone have
any suggestions/comments on this idea? What does the
state require when buying a vehicle there?
 What are the general costs for this sort of thing-or
where do I find these costs? I have heard about the
smog test-does this apply to old VW's? Is there an
 age limit on this test?
<<<

Obviously check the CA DMV website for important
details. Shouldn't need to get a CA license unless you
start to become a CA resident, like register to vote.
Vehicle ownership may count, not sure.

CA has a year limit on smog testing, and if you buy an
old VW, it will be exempt, I can't recall the year
limit, so no smog testing needed and if it does, the
seller is required to have it done before the sale, I
will repeat that it is the seller's responsibility to
meet smog, not the buyer. Many, many people in CA do
not know this is the law. Even if you buy a car as-is,
the seller is responsible for the smog test. This is
to keep sellers from promising that it passes, and
sticking the buyer with fixing it up to pass.

You will pay sales tax on it, but the value of the
sale will be determined by what you declare at the DMV
on the form they provide. Since this is reimbursable
by your employer, play it straight.

You really should talk to someone about the
implications of a CA driver license as regards
insurance. If you intend to keep your non-CA DL,
probably need to insure it from your home-base state.

Unlike some other states, there is no state inspection
of cars other than smog, unless the vehicle is off the
records and needs to be put back on the books, in
which case, it may need an inspection to confirm VIN.
In this case, various other basics will be checked,
such as lights and brakes to some extent that match
the year of make.

The DMV website can answer a lot of these questions,
but you may have to poke around a bit to find them.
http://dmv.ca.gov/

Jeff
