From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - DBG" <dbginfo(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, "List - GVWC"
Cc: "O'Shea, Kathie \(& Craig\)" <koshea56(-at-)aol.com>, "Bowman, Bill &
Date: Thu, 6 Sep 2007 10:32:04 -0500
Subject: BNNTA event wrap up...

Howdy campers,

It's a few days later and I've finally caught my breath again since the busy
weekend we just had.  I thought a brief "debrief" of the BNNTA event would be
in order.

First off, I'd like to thank everyone who drove so many old VWs to Mark Twain
Lake in NE Missouri to enjoy the long holiday weekend VW camping event.
Longest didtance for a Splitty was from Texas and for an IRS axle Bus from New
Mexico!  It looks like we had about 90 VWs registered.  Well over 90 percent
were Type 2s, with several Beetles, a Ghia, and some Rabbits all camping too.
Probably a little over 300 VW enthusiasts,family, dogs and even a cat enjoyed
unusually cool, spectacular camping weather all weekend.  Lots of campfires
late into the evening, and quite a few canoes and kayaks out on the 22 mile
long lake.  No one seemed to have ANY major mechanical problems getting there,
so I thankfully never saw an engine out on a picnic table for repairs.

The Saturday scenic caravan across the dam and then on to historic Hanibal, MO
was awesome!  Voting was fierce and some lucky participants took home well
deserved awards, and about 3/4 of the owners even took home a door prize too.
Sunday's "slow drags" we're histerical, with some creative cheating going on
throughout the competition.

After hosting 22 of these events over the past 17 years (at first called
"Buses by the Arch", now called "Buses Nowhere Near The Arch") the event
really has the feel of a huge family reunion of old and new friends, folks
that just happen to be very passionate about camping with their VWs.  Like we
did last year, we'll be donating the proceeds from the event to a soon to be
selected worthy charity.

Again, thanks to all of the attendees for driving so far and making the event
such a pleasure to host.  We look forward to seeing you all (as well as many
new visitors) again over the next Labor Day weekend at the lake in 2008!

Bill Bowman
http://www.bnnta.com
