From: harry.houck(-at-)comcast.net
To: <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Date: Thu, 06 Sep 2007 15:59:24 +0000
Subject: Re: [VB] white crud on battery

Here's what my old friend Google found about this...
You can use paste of baking soda and water, then grease or vaseline to seal the connections from the air if you don't want to buy special battery stuff. 

http://www.wikihow.com/Take-Care-of-Automotive-Batteries

   1. Go to the auto parts store, and acquire some battery terminal goo, the stuff that prevents corrosion. Usually comes with a new battery. Better yet, you can purchase some battery corrosion prevention spray.. does the same thing, easier to apply.
   2. Remove any rubber or plastic covers off of the battery terminals. Not the posts on top, but the terminals on the side that the cables bolt on to.
   3. Do you see any blue or white powder/corrosion forming anywhere? If no, put the covers back on and crack open a beer, you're done.
   4. If yes, you see corrosion, then you've got work to do. Remove both battery terminals with a socket wrench. Please watch what you're doing here. Don't short circuit the red terminal to any metal part of the engine or your going to be sorry. Just be cool when you ratchet the wrench back and forth.
   5. Get a wire brush and scrape off all the corrosion crud from the bolt, the cable assembly and the battery terminal itself. Get inside the threads of the battery female connector. Make real sure you get all the crud off the cable assy, including the connectors. I have had to cut off the rubber insulation so that I could get all the corrosion off. Just make sure to cut the rubber so that you can put it back on later. Tip - pour boiling water over the corrosion before starting any other cleaning - it will dissolve much of the deposits and wash them away. Wash down thoroughly with plenty of cold water afterwards.
   6. Check again to make sure you've got every last bit of corrosion brushed off. The corrosion is battery acid that has reacted with the air and metal. If you don't get it off, it continues to react and cause problems. In fact some say it will slide down the cable assy insulation and force you to replace the whole assy at considerable cost.
   7. Once everything's hunky dory and spotless, then spread the goo or spray all the mating surfaces completely.
   8. Now you're ready to put it all together. Don't over tighten and strip the battery threads... it's only soft lead after all. Put the positive (red) on first, then the negative (black).
