From: "Michael Brown" <m_brown(-at-)cox.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Nov 2002 23:47:00 -0500
Subject: Final questions before renbuild???  (long)

Lately,  I have been studying, reading, researching, all around gathering as
much info/knowledge as possible before pulling and hopefully tearing down and
completly rebuilding a 2.0 FI air cooled engine.  It's out of an 81 Vanagon
camper (delux??), with a great interior, that I'm hoping to restore to a solid
camper/daily driver/ home/ whatever. In the way distant future (this will
drain me for a while) doing mininmal body/resto work, i.e painting, general
cosmetics).  After getting it home and studying, I know/believe the following
to be true:

1. FI system good
2. heater boxers/exhaust good
3. Ignition system good
4. Blown head gasket/ burnt valve

I have the time, the knowledge, money, the resources.(<------ this last
sentance being overly optimistic).  So anyhow this my plan.  And had a few
final questions (<--- yeah right) before I start this next weekend.  This
weekend will be just setting up the garage (workspace, lights, heater, tools,
getting, help, etc.) and pulling the engine out (without the transmission) and
getting a good list of parts to getter. I will order most all parts from bus
depot (gasket kit, rings, bearings).  I know I'll be buying parts after the
initial order.

So anyway after being so long winded my few questions?  Sorry for the innoying
posts I will and/ or may have posted/or am posting.

1. Anyone know of a good machine shop in Ohio (preferebly  in or within a few
hours of Cleveland)????

I  have a complete 78 FI bus for parts and my 72 westy which is my 1st air
cooled vehical and daily/ sadly a beater for a little while longer until I get
this 81 up and running. (She will then get the true love she deserves).

2. Any good local (Ohio/ Cleveland area) venders good for emergency parts i.e.
bolts, misc. hardware, oversized piston rings?  I would prefer not to wait for
mail order, but if I have to I will. I've heard of L.A. products.

3. Anyone know where exactly is L.A. products?

4. Any idea how long to breakdown an engine??  The breakdown of the engine
only. (assuming I "know" what to do/ no major suprises/ accidents, etc)
Cleaning and rebuilding, I believe,  will the long and time consuming part.

5.  I plan on taking pictures with a digital camera I will be borrowing for my
own reference.  If I have time, can  I post pictures to the group?  Or
do/should I set up a ftp or website?

Thanks,

Mike
