Date: Sun, 10 Nov 2002 23:50:31 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Why won't it bleed?

Phil,

I juat got back from a short trip and I see your post and Jim's, Tommy's,
Karl's, and Jamies responses.

All have very valid suggestions and I was about to delete the thread and
move on... BUT...  I cannot resist asking....

In your post, first your write:

> The brake servo is bad, so I have to use a lot of oomph. But the
> brakes seem OK otherwise.

and then your write:

> In spite of some evidence of leakage on the inside of
> the right rear tire, the brake fluid reservoir is nearly full.

OK. so your booster is bad...  Usually the cause of booster failure is the
master leaking fluid into the booster, which eats up the diaphram.  And
then there is brake fluid leaking from at least one of your rear wheels to
the point that you can see it.  And you want to know why you are having
brake problems???????

Phil, I am sorry.  I know that this will upset you but you have major
problems and you have to take your bus apart a bit and check the brakes
*thoroughly* before you drive it again!  Not just for your sake (I smoke,
OK?  I am strongly against regulating suicide), but for the sake of the
other people on the road.

First, you need to jack up both rear wheels and pull the drums off and
look at the shoes.  Are they wet with brake fluid?  if they are, then they
need to be replaced, along with the wheel cylinders.  If the shoes are not
wet, then look hard at the wheel cylinders themselves.  Peel back the
rubber boots.  If it is wet under the boots, they are leaking.  Replace
them *NOW*, replace both.  When you replace the cylinders, replace the
flex lines that lead to them.

Second, as Karl says, check the regulator.  Use the procedure he posted.

Third, check the front calipers.  Pull the pads.  Are they wet?  Replace
the pads, unless they are damn near new.  Do the pistons compress back in
easily?  If the pads are wet or the pistons are hard to return, then,
again, you need rebuilt calipers.  Again, replace the flex lines if (a)
you replace the calipers or (b) you have not yet since you bought the bus.

Fourth, pull the booster and MC out of the bus.  Look for evidence of
fluid in the MC.  If there is, then you need a new MC.

Fifth, inspect the metal lines, all of them, for corrosion.  If you see
anything more than surface corrosion, replace that line.  Make sure it is
just surface corrosion with a bit of sandpaper.  If you can't sand the
corrosion off, then it's a pit.  If it is pitted then the pit will
eventially go thru and you will lose that line at the most inconvenient
time imaginable.

Next to lastly, I would replace the booster, not just because it is nice
to have the assist, but beccause it is a good check on a leaking MC.
There is a rebuilder mentioned often in the archives somewhere near
Dallas, TX or Busted Bus would be happy to sell you a good used one, but
please replace it.

And lastly, for directions on bleeding.... I am about to repost the
procedure for bleeding brakes.

I trot this line out again and again... A bus that won't go, won't kill
you; a bus that won't stop just might! and it is true!!!!  I am sorry to
say I cannot be less than a true hard-ass on brakes. It's serious, it's
not just your life, it is other people's lives you are risking, OK?

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail
