Date: Mon, 11 Nov 2002 10:13:14 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: <philipparker(-at-)warwickshire.gov.uk>
Subject: Re: [T2] My van is eating batteries

On Mon, 11 Nov 2002 philipparker(-at-)warwickshire.gov.uk wrote:

> I have a voltmeter and it shows 12-13V while running and drops to 11V with
> the engine off. Leave it for a few days and the voltage drops to 8V and
> it's time for a charge.

Phil,

It's not supposed to do that :-)  the 12-13 is fiine while running, but it
should not drop to 11.  Something is still connected when your ignition is
off and it's draining the battery.  The first thing to do is to remove the
ground cable from the battery and connect a voltmeter between the cable
and the post. It *should* read 0 when the bus is off, but probably won't.
To figure out where the drain is coming from, you need to:

1)  eliminate the deliberate permanent loads (clock, radio) that are
    always on and you want it that way;
1a) check the voltage at the battery - did it drop to 0?
2)  eliminate the fused loads - remove all the fuses from your fuse box;
2a) check the voltage at the battery - did it drop to 0?

If the voltage drops to 0 after 1, then the clock or radio is drawing way
mor power than it ought to. They *should* only draw milli- or micro-amps,
but if there is a flaw, then they may draw way more.

If the voltage drops to 0 after 2, then you have a short somewhere in a
fused circuit.  Start putting in fuses, one at a time, until the voltage
draw comes back.  Go to the type2 site and look for the correct wiring
diagram for your year of bus and see what is hanging off that circuit.
Trace it and find out where it's shorted.

If there is still a current draw after you have completed steps 1 and 2
(and I suspect from your post that there will be, then the short is in the
unfused portion of you electrics.  These circuits run the engine and the
generator/alternator.  You have to crawl under the bus to test them.  Get
under there and go to the starter motor.  There will be a big post on the
starter solenoid with 3-6 (depending on year) wires on that post under a
nut.  Remove the nut, remove the ring terminals from the post, use a
twist-tie to tie them all together and check the volt meter.  Dead?  0
volts?  Good!  That means that the main cable from the battery to the
starter is OK.  then start putting wires back on the post, one at a time,
starting with the big wire from the positive terminal of the battery.
when your voltage jumps up, that's the culprit!

> I suspect a charging fault as very occasionally the red light doesn't go
> off when the engine starts. Fanbelt is fine and the oil temp is not going
> up so the fan (and hence the generator) is turning. Reving the engine
> doesn't do the job but stoping and re-starting normally does. Problem is
> much worse in wet weather.

I suspect you are right.  I further suspect that it is your voltage
regulator.... BUT!!!!  I am 2,000 miles away and can't drop in :-)  Check
everything, guess nothing.  You may want to start with the starter
solenoid terminal test.  One of those wires leads to the front of the bus
and will eliminate the fuse box as a suspect earlier, but I tend to start
at the front to avoid the underbelly if I can.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail
