From: Debbdavis(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 11 Nov 2002 11:09:44 EST
To: noky(-at-)nextbus.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] compression low

In a message dated 11/10/2002 5:06:27 PM Central Standard Time, 
noky(-at-)nextbus.com writes:

On a side note (following the spirits thought)... when I dug out my 
compression tester from the the footlocker underneath the back seat, I 
found a mysterious Clymer manual which covers '61-'79 buses.  Weird!  I've 
never seen this in my life before, and there it was sitting on top of my 
usual pile of tools and parts.  The bus is always locked (not that that 
means much) and nobody I know admits to sticking it in...  Just freaky.  
Maybe it holds the key...



Mysterious spirits might be the cause and cure of your problem.

Use your instincts and follow the clues given you, no matter how convoluted 
they may seem.  I had a transmission problem 6 months ago and the mechanic 
that came highly recommended had me (almost) convinced that we needed a new 
transmission, even though something told me that it was just a little thing, 
something broken or not lining up right, though I couldn't express it 
mechanically.  Bought new transmission and thankfully it was wrong for my 69 
(from a 72...minor variations make all the difference) so, just to humor me, 
I batted my eyes and asked the mechanic to just look inside the tranny, just 
to see if something was loose or broken (one of the benefits of being a girl 
when dealing with cars is you don't have to justify your reasoning.  
Mechanics automatically assume you're nuts and go with it if you push hard 
enough) Turns out, $500 in labor later, it was a loose screw that wore 
through the gear selector plate and kept it from going into gear.  Paid a 
welder $25 (the part is unavailable anywhere, it turns out) to double 
reinforce the plate, the embarrassed (albeit humbled) mechanic took 10 
minutes to put it back in the tranny and I had a van that shifted better than 
new...plus I got my money back on the tranny that I didn't need in the first 
place (VW karma is a beautiful thing).
Long story longer, TRUST YOURSELF AND YOUR VEHICLE!  VW's are Zen creatures.  
That's why we drive them and care for them with such love and temperance.  
The "spirits" of which you speak are the best things about your van.  Use 
your common sense, be kind to it and be glad that it gives you warnings after 
5 miles on the road.  Better than being stranded in the desert or destroying 
your engine without any clue that it was coming.  Your van doesn't want that 
any more than you do. Follow standard procedures, replace ALL the nickle and 
dime parts (fuel filters, oil screen, spark plugs and all the other stuff 
that is supposed to be traded out regularly but seldom is), think, listen and 
pray.
And if all else fails, sing a chorus of Janis Joplin's "Mercedes Benz" to 
shame it into running right.  "My friends all drive Porsches, I must make 
amends"
Light and luck,
Deb
69 Westy - Sunshine
