From: "Jay Ollom" <jaytype2(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 11 Nov 2002 12:03:34 -0500
Subject: Praise for Bus Depot (Longish)

List,
     Since Bus Depot was recently under fire, and because while I have seen 
a few slams and not all that many praises since I have been on the list, I 
am writing this email.  My experience with Bus Depot has been stellar, and 
frankly, I wonder if I deserve their level of service. This is not too 
common in a world where I usually have to wonder if the company I'm dealing 
with deserves MY business.  Seeing this whole nonsense on shipping and such 
reminds me of my experience.   I had ordered a set of replacement body 
panels from B.D. and I quickly received two out of three of the panels that 
I had ordered.  Panel number three had been back ordered, although I didn't 
know it at the time.  I called them up to ask about it after a week or so, 
and they politely told me it was back ordered and should ship within a 
couple of weeks.  And it did, No fuss, no muss.
     When I originally placed the order I talked to a younger fellow over 
there to make sure I was ordering the right thing, and he must have taken a 
good 20 minutes out of his day to try to explain to me how the three pieces 
of metal make up the sill or rocker piece on the bus because I was having 
trouble understanding what I needed to order.  I ended up with everything I 
needed, and they seem to be very high quality pieces!
     The only weird part of the whole experience is that I received a Giah 
rear deck lid seal about a week or two later that I had not ordered.  I 
called them up to ask them what they wanted me to do with it, and they asked 
me to ship it back, which I told them I would do.  I promptly sat it on a 
shelf in my garage and forgot all about it until I read this post (Sorry 
Ron) so I will go and mail that tonight.  Personally, I don't care if they 
ever reimburse my shipping (of course, in this case it's probably only a 
buck or two) or mailing cost (I just feel bad that I forgot about it for so 
long).  Ron consistently finds things that nobody else does, things that 
were previously thought not to exist anymore, and things of higher quality 
than anybody else.  His prices are well thought out, usually cheaper than 
the other guys, and only more expensive if he can offer a higher quality 
product.  Their staff is intelligent and know about the vehicles, which is 
also rare in a world where you go to the big hardware store and ask them 
where the pulleys are they say "pulleys?... What do they look like?"  If 
paying the occasional return shipping cost, or occasionally waiting an extra 
week or two for a part helps keep them available as a resource, I am HAPPY 
to do so!

Jay Ollom
Clinton, Maryland
