Date: Mon, 11 Nov 2002 14:09:02 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] [t2] Help! Window's off the track, weather is getting

>The arm rest is attached to the door panel and will come off with it.

Maybe I missed the year of this bus but generally the arm rest is attached 
to the door through the door panel. It has to come off first. Couple 
Phillips head screws in the bottom.

You'll also have to remove the inside door latch release too. This has a 
screw right in the middle of the trim piece behind the release lever. If 
your's is not exposed then there is a small plastic cup covering it. Take a 
small regular screw driver and pop it off. You'll see a place for the screw 
driver at the 9 o'clock position. Insert screwdriver and pry.

Lastly you have to remove the window crank. Pop the plastic trim off at the 
end of the window crank opposite the knob. Use the same small regular 
screwdriver. Don't loose the rubbing washer between the crank handle and 
the door panel.

Phillips head screw will then be visible.

If someone has added any door speakers remove it.

Remove the 20 or so clips carefully. They pull straight out. A small tool 
for this job is available at the flaps. If you don't pop the clips with a 
tool you risk tearing the cardboard backing of the door panel. If you do it 
right you don't need the tool. Just takes care and practice. I start at the 
bottom and work my way up. Remove the plastic moisture barrier behind the 
door panel. You really only need to pull it off at the bottom. Use 3-M 
weatherstripping glue to glue it back. Spray upholstery glue works okay too 
- spray on the door and the plastic, wait a couple minutes and then smooth 
the plastic out on the door. If you ruin it or if it is not there, any 
heavy grade plastic works good as a replacement. Ground cover plastic is 
what i would shop for. The OEM stuff was clear, doesn't make a bit of 
difference what you buy. Keeps your cardboard door panels from getting soggy.

Roll window all the way down, you'll see the clamp that the glass is held 
by. You may have to try new adhesive like Urethane glass sealant or you may 
find the two bolts that attach the glass to the regulator have come out. (I 
doubt this part will be the case).

Squirt urethane glass sealant into the clamp. Push the glass back into the 
clamp. Let dry (just don't roll the window down until tomorrow). Roll the 
window up and let dry. Try to get the clamp in the same place on the window 
as before forward or aft. If you don't get it right it makes the window 
hard to move up and down.

You van may require a slightly different procedure if you've got the heater 
duct on the door.

Let me suggest buying the Bentley manual as it has all the pics and 
procedures in it for this very job. You can do it - as doors go these are 
pretty simple.






Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
