Date: Sat, 25 Oct 2003 10:20:14 -0700
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] oil froth / question

On Friday, October 24, 2003, at 08:53  PM, James Jackson wrote:

> The oil in the 78 bus  has a white frothy appearance only at the top 
> of the dipstick
> and at the top of the tube where you add oil to the engine. It is not 
> down near the
> level indicator of the dip stick.

I had oil froth (what I referred to as "Castrol aioli" :-) in my 
breather box recently, and asked this very same question.

Water is a by-product of combustion in gasoline engines (fuel made of 
hydrocarbons + O2 == H2O + CO + CO2).  That water *should* all go out 
your exhaust valves and out the tailpipe.  But on old engines, you're 
likely to see some of this water and some of the exhaust gasses make it 
past the rings and into the crankcase.  This is called blow-by.

Water does not mix with oil.  So, instead the churn in the case beats 
the water and engine oil to form an emulsion (similar to how beating 
vegetable oil and water together with lemon and a little protein can 
make a tasty condiment for fried calamari).

This emulsion (froth) then deposits itself in various places for you to 
see when you add/check oil, etc.  If you take off your oil breather 
box, you'll probably see some deposited in there, as well.  You may 
also see some condensation if you look down into the case with the 
breather box removed.

Now, if the engine oil gets hot enough, the water will boil off.  I'd 
guess that your thermostat is not connected to the cooling flaps in the 
fan shroud, and so the oil cooler is being blasted with cooling air 
(which is pretty cold up there :-) all the time.  Then again, when the 
water boils off, you don't see the symptoms.  Kind of a mixed bag, I 
guess.

Anyway, this blow-by is to be expected on old engines.  Those piston 
rings have been at it for over 20 years, after all (more like 30 for a 
1700 engine).  If your engine is running well, and isn't leaking oil, 
it probably still has a fair amount of service left in it.

You can get a pretty good indication of how much service life is left 
in your engine by getting a leak-down test.  This test involves pumping 
compressed air into the cylinder while the piston is at TDC of the 
compression stroke and measuring the leakage.  By listening, you or 
your mechanic (whoever performs the test) can tell where the leakage 
occurs.

Hope this helps...

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/
