Date: Sat, 25 Oct 2003 11:01:12 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: Typical Story

YoYo comes by my house and takes three quarter of an hour telling be the 
story of his T-II problems. Told him to meet me at the shop the next 
morning. Story starts out, he has replaced 3 motors in 3 years. First one 
by a backyard $25 per hour high value there ACE screwdriver poker. That 
fails, buy a GOOD used motor, that fails. He sells that one and buys 
another T-II and that motor fails. All the time he is traveling across 5 
western states, so every failure is strange city fixin'.  Now starting to 
learn his lesson, he goes to a legitimate shop and lo and behold, he pays 
for a NW Con Rod motor install. I congratulate him. They he offers that he 
was at my shop 4 years ago before all this started happening. Couldn't 
afford to pay me to do it right the first time. At $74 per hour to do it 
right, screwdriver poking between beers in the back yard seemed a great 
idea. I was such an obvious rip off.

So, he's got what looks like a nice install. New perimeter seal, things 
looking like the basic work was done with VW knowledge and experience. But 
they put on the Weber progressive as the best alternative to the worn out 
stock carbs that he left in Boise. Well, it wasn't running very good and 
the shop said it needs jets matched. He thought they were piling on so he 
takes it to a carburetor specialist. He concurs and comes up with the right 
jets, then tunes it too lean. A thousand miles of break in on the motor 
while overheating over lead up Rocky and Cascade Mountain grades and he is 
at my shop.

He's got an 009 and the idle co is 2%. Spec is 3.5%. The carb specialist 
used spec for late model Japanese trucks with feed back carbs. He has also 
been told by two other shops that his spitting and farting will cost him a 
new brake booster to fix so he has been running with the hose disconnected 
and the fitting plugged. I set up my air for a 30 second test and prove no 
leak in the booster.

I tune it to a proper 3.5%, hook up the booster, and tell him to take it 
for a drive and report, better/same/worse. He comes back all issues 
resolved, except for the 009 acceleration lag and the wrong spec hose for 
the booster and the ill fitting Weber reverse mounted so the adjustment 
screws are hidden.

I bill him 0.8 hours, half actually on the machine and half answering more 
questions, and I was trying to shut him off so I could save him some money. 
Saved him $500 for a brake booster R&R that wouldn't have solved a thing. I 
doubt very much the others who said he needed one were trying to rip him 
off. They don't know what they are doing if they couldn't prove it was spec 
in 30 seconds like I did. They just guessed it was bad because of the 
symptoms and assumed that since he had just come from a carb specialist, it 
couldn't be base mixture adjustment. It would have taken 15 minutes tops to 
verify it, but that is much more expensive than assumption, don't you know.

He spent twice as much money as I would have charged him in the beginning 
to fix it all right the first time. Hope he hasn't fouled that new NW 
ConRod motor with lean overheating during break in fully loaded up the 6%+ 
grades. But I suspect he kicked a half life out of it in the first 1000 
miles. It's no way to treat a good motor.

I am raising my rates. It's been 3 years since the last bump. If you want 
to waste your time/money, stay away from my shop, go elsewhere and smoke a 
pipe in the back yard of a good olde $25 per hour Joe. I refuse to waste my 
valuable time and your valuable time/money to do compromise work with 
compromise parts at the rate of a plain assed screwdriver poker. Go for 
cheap, stay poor until you learn otherwise. Otherwise, come to me, pay me 
to do it right, and get a whole lot more miles of safety and reliability 
per dollar spent.

I told him flat out, nothing he told me proves to me that he was victimized 
by anything other than HIS ATTITUDE.
