Date: Sat, 25 Oct 2003 11:12:08 -0400
From: Jeff Myer <jmyer(-at-)Myermountain.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Torque

    Iwas just thinking about the subject of torgue on the way home the 
other day pulling a long steep hill in my 72 westy. In consideration of 
torque (which is  a factor in the computation of horsepower) it is 
absolutely critical to consider at what point in the rpm range the 
torque is generated. In fact the torque vs RPM curve overall is the most 
critical factor to consider when considering how the motor will power a 
given vehicle with a given drive train.
    Consider the power curve of an industrial engine that produces lots 
of  torque at a very low rpm. Place this power source in the drive line 
of your bus and you might have incredible pulling power for the first 5 
ft until the power curve demands that you shift to the next gear.....as 
you go through the gears, you continue to have incredible pull .... 
unfortunately in forth gear you may only be going 13 mph.
    Consider also a highly tuned racing engine that develops its maximum 
torque at 13,000 rpm. Put this motor in your bus and you will need to 
slip the clutch just to get the thing rolling (If you can at all). If 
you are able to get it rolling, you may be able to do 110 MPH but god 
forbid you ever have to start off from a stop light in the middle of a 
hill.
    Overall, my point is that one must consider the entire power curve 
and at what rpm the motor produces its maximum torque. This 
consideration along with the specific application's drive line, 
effective total gear ratio between the motor and driven wheel in each 
gear etc. then you can get a sense of the driving characteristics of the 
total package.

    Just doing a core dump of my mad ramblings to myself on the ride 
home yesterday.
-Jeff
72 Westy "Gretta"
Terry K wrote:

>>Snip
>Mack Trucks does the same thing--with a big bore--long stroke--low
>RPM's, and with triple counter rotating lay shafts in the trans----which
>amplifies the engines torque to the back wheels--
>
>Torque isn't always just due to the length of the stroke, but for
>simplification purposes--this is correct--the size of the bore
>helps--but not without long stroke--
>  
>
 >Snip
