From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)72camper.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 26 May 2004 01:13:41 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Blaupunkt Radio wiring?

As briefly as possible (pmail me if you like)...

The 12v power wire should be connected to a source/wire that is only hot
when the key is on. It's tough finding a good wire in the bus, but use a
test light ($5 at a FLAPS) to find one, by putting the pointy part of the
tester into the wire and then turning on the key to see if the light comes
on. Be careful which wire you are tapping into....an interior light would be
better than say an ignition wire. The #7 fuse is an "accessory" on your bus
if you can find a decent way to tap into it.

An inline fuse is a good idea to protect your stereo. A 10 or 20 amp fuse
can be used, keep in mind smaller is better if you aren't sure what the
stereo can handle.

I am not sure on a vintage stereo, but new systems have a hot wire to keep
the clock and presets stored and this MAY be what your other small connector
is. You would tap this into a wire that is hot at all times, unless you
rarely drive your bus (runs the battery down over an extended period of
time).

I reccomend laying the stereo on the seat and running long temporary wires
so you can test what you have done before you hardwire it in. Use whatever
accessory you have tapped into to make sure you aren't blowing fuses or
hampering the function of the accessory.

As for mounting....you didn't mention what year bus you have, but on new
stereos you have to cut out the slot for the stereo. If your new stereo is
vintage you may not have to do this and you won't have to worry about a cd
skipping so you don't need an elaborate bracket. The little stud and nut is
for support. You can get a little metal bracket with holes in it from the
electronic store for this. In my 72 I used the stud on the back of the
ashtray and it even kept my cd's from skipping. If you have a 68-72 you can
use the ashtray stud too. It takes a little patience and you have to remove
the ashtray and then the metal housing to mount this bracket to the ashtray
but will work well.

You probably won't fry the radio in anything you do to hook it up. Just run
your temporary wires and try it as you go.

Good luck,

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
