From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 16 Nov 2009 18:44:00 -0500
Subject: replacing points with electronic ignition

I was just out adjusting my points again. And was thinking about switching
to one of those electronic ignition devices.

 

It looks like there are a lot of factors to consider. 

 

1-type of distributor 

 

My dist is a 0231 178 009, I guess this is a "009" distributor. I have often
heard on the list that this is not a good distributor, unless you are racing
your vehicle. A better distributor is a dual advance, vacuum and centrifugal
advance. I did a little archive reading, and saw the Aircooled.net SVDA
distributor recommended.

 

2. Type of carburetor

My carb says SOLEX H30/31 PICT on it.  If I get a new SVDA distributor, I
want to make sure it is compatible with this carb, but the aircooled website
is not really clear on this. It looks like it is not compatible with my
carb. 

 

If I need to replace my carb and my distributor to be able to use one of
these electronic ignition systems, that seems like overkill, and more money
that feel like spending right now.

 

3. Type of system

It looks like there are quite a few manufacturers out there, Cranes,
Pertronix, Mallory, Compu-tronix, Hot Spark.and more. 

 

I don't drive a race vehicle. I am just looking to not have to adjust my
check my points. Some sites also say I will not need to adjust timing
either. Easier maintenance sounds good. 

 

I know I don't fully understand these systems, but it looks like I just take
out my points and put one of these systems in, then my VW should go, with no
points or timing adjustment needed. Am I missing something. 

 

Oh yeah, I also read, if it breaks in the middle of nowhere, you are stuck!
So I guess I would just carry a spare set of points, in case I ever had a
problem I could just swap the points in.

 

Suggestions, clarifications, appreciated..

 

Thanks..

 

-Kevin

 

'65 kombi

'69 single cab

Jamaica Plain, MA 
