Date: Mon, 16 Nov 2009 19:04:54 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
Subject: Re: [T2] replacing points with electronic ignition

Kevin Guarnotta wrote:
> I was just out adjusting my points again. And was thinking about switching
> to one of those electronic ignition devices.

Just fyi, it's not electronic ignition that you're referring to - it's 
electronic points.  Electronic ignition actually controls the timing 
with a computer.


> My dist is a 0231 178 009, I guess this is a "009" distributor. I have often
> heard on the list that this is not a good distributor, unless you are racing

You heard right.  Dump it!

> My carb says SOLEX H30/31 PICT on it.  If I get a new SVDA distributor, I
> want to make sure it is compatible with this carb, but the aircooled website
> is not really clear on this. It looks like it is not compatible with my
> carb. 

Contact John from Aircooled and he should be able to help you out.  I 
believe they can dial it in so it will have the correct weighting so 
that it kicks in the correct amount of timing at the correct RPMs.  He 
should also know which carbs have a vacuum port.

> If I need to replace my carb and my distributor to be able to use one of
> these electronic ignition systems, that seems like overkill, and more money
> that feel like spending right now.

It's definitely not overkill.  Regardless of which way you go, 
electronic points are totally worth it.  I've had my CompuFire in there 
for about 7 years or something like that, and I've never needed to 
adjust my timing (except when I pull the distributor).  Rock solid and 
pain-free.


> It looks like there are quite a few manufacturers out there, Cranes,
> Pertronix, Mallory, Compu-tronix, Hot Spark.and more. 

I like compufire, but that's completely up to you.  I've seen more 
failures of pertronix, but that might also be because they have a larger 
audience - hard to tell.


> I don't drive a race vehicle. I am just looking to not have to adjust my
> check my points. Some sites also say I will not need to adjust timing
> either. Easier maintenance sounds good. 

It does sound good!  And if you put a SVDA, you're car will drive 
better, too.


> I know I don't fully understand these systems, but it looks like I just take
> out my points and put one of these systems in, then my VW should go, with no
> points or timing adjustment needed. Am I missing something. 

You don't really need to understand them.  You just put it in there and 
then adjust the timing just like you would on a regular points 
distributor.  It's just easier to maintain as there is nothing to 
maintain.  No gaps, no dwell, nada...

> Oh yeah, I also read, if it breaks in the middle of nowhere, you are stuck!
> So I guess I would just carry a spare set of points, in case I ever had a
> problem I could just swap the points in.

Couldn't hurt!  I've got a set of points in my bus, but I've never had 
to use them.  I'm running electronic ignition now, so I don't even use 
the distributor - but that's a whole other beast ;)

> Suggestions, clarifications, appreciated..

regardless of whether or not you get electronic points, definitely get 
an SVDA distributor.  It will make your car drive *much* better.

Mike
