From: "Todd Jaspers" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Old Volks Home" <oldvolkshome(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Nov 2009 13:34:54 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Perfect "3rd" gauge for the Bus...

Thanks Jim, you make an excellent point about the calibration.

The "gauge splitter" as I incorrectly called it, was only going to be used for
the oil pressure, definitely not the temperature. The current sensor is used
to measure oil pressure for the factory gauges (which I'd like to leave
as-is). I'm going to be putting in a new sending unit from VDO which has two
outputs (I was told I can appropriately measure the oil pressure from this
that will be suitable for a gauge).

The oil pressure gauge is measured in "Druck" pressure, which as of this time,
I have absolutely no clue what that means. I'm not overly concerned really on
what the actual number is. I know oil pressure is good, I think I would use it
more to determine what I should expect on my bus, and then if it starts
measuring differently one day, I'll know if there's a problem before it
becomes a major one.

The temperature sensor part of the gauge doesn't have any numbers associated
with it, just a long sweeping area with a red box at the top. The gauge came
(originally) from a 1978 Porsche 911 SC. So my thought was to get the same
sending unit for the temperature as was used in that car.

Is the Taco Plate you speak of that circular dish that screws into the bottom
of the block? I think I removed that once and there's like a mesh filter in
there or something???

I was originally thinking of installing it in the oil plug (I've seen those),
but now that you tell me about the 914, I actually do recall hearing about the
914s having temperature sensors. I see a 914 in the junkyard every now and
then, so maybe I'll have to take a look at it.

I have an 1800cc w/ hydraulic lifters. I guess the 1700 was standard on my 73,
but the engine that my Bus came with (when I bought it) was an 1800cc GEX
rebuild... yeah, I know.

All of the drive-train components were used and worn. I ended up actually
replacing ALL the lifters and pushrods with new ones that I got from Bus
Depot. I think the brand were Mahle... or... whichever one was the more
expensive German made one (I think I spent like $400 bucks on the set)... but
the Bus runs perfectly now... and the lifters NEVER lose prime... even after
sitting for months!


Todd


  ----- Original Message -----
  From: Old Volks Home
  To: Todd Jaspers
  Subject: Re: [T2] Perfect "3rd" gauge for the Bus...


  It's important to remember that a "cool looking" combo gauge such as from
the 911 (or any other make) will require that the proper senders are used for
accuracy.  I'm sure that the 911 senders are not the same as what VDO offers
to the aftermarket.  If you use an aftermarket sender out of the box, you may
get a worthless reading unless you have an instrument specialist calibrate the
gauge to that sender's specifications.  If you have the budget to do this,
then go for it.

  A gauge splitter (or more properly called a sender splitter) sounds like a
great idea at first, but even VDO recommends NOT obtaining the oil temperature
from this location because the temperature sender probe is not "immersed" in
the oil to give a proper signal for an accurate reading.  If using this 911
setup, a little research might be in order to find out where the original 911
sender was installed and try to do the same (or close to) on your 1700.  The
1700 "Taco Plate" (as it's called) is usually the best place to drill and
mount the oil temp sender (they were  a standard installation on the 1700 914s
of the era, I happen to have a factory plate on my 411 Wagon for the standard
VDO aftermarket 310-012 oil temp gauge).

  Jim Thompson
