Date: Wed, 18 Nov 2009 02:29:49 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Trouble Timing a 1973 Dual Carb Setup w/ SVDA

Hi Joe,

Don't worry about getting a DVDA distributor. That was generally
considered a bad attempt by  VW to meet emissions standards, and many
people remove them and replace them with an SVDA, or even just
disconnect the retard line on the DVDA so it functions like an SVDA,
and likewise time it like an SVDA with idle timing at 7.5 BTDC and
maximum advance at 3500 RPM at 28 to 32 BTDC. If your dizzy isn't
working right and you can't get idle and max in spec, then the 3500
RPM reading takes priority.

As for your dizzy not working right, I recently had to replace a dizzy
that wasn't preforming correctly. The timing kept changing on me. I
think it was due to a sticking advance plate. So verify your timing
after it starts messing up. If it has changed, you know something is
wrong inside the dizzy. Backfiring is also a sign of this if the dizzy
sticks and sends a spark to the cylinder while a valve is still open.
I've blown off the air cleaner arm with this before.

If the old dizzy is otherwise good, you can solder the ground wire,
but it takes a good hot soldering iron. I needed a 120 watt model to
heat the base plate enough to take the solder.

Keep us posted.

John

On Wed, Nov 18, 2009 at 1:58 AM, Joe <riomx(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
 The T1 to T4 swap is done and the 1973 engine with dual Solex carbs
is firing right up. Unfortunately, the modified 009 with DVDA canister
and pertronix ignition that was being used on the engine was on its
way out. The ground wire was literally hanging by one single thread.
We decided to throw the pertronix ignition onto an SVDA distributor
that came from a 1976 Westfalia camper instead.

 Unfortunately, the engine is not timing properly. Jon Stiles (also a
Type 2 member) attempted to set the advance repeatedly, but the engine
wouldn't stay on and at one point began to backfire. He suspects it
could possibly be a vacuum leak.

 Does anyone have recommendations? Should we be using an SVDA
distributor, or source another DVDA instead? Does this sound like it
could be caused by anything else?

 Thanks in advance
