From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 17 Nov 2009 17:15:34 -0500
Subject: re:replacing points with electronic ignition

Wow!

 

Thanks for the numerous tips. My mini-summary:

 

1.       I'm not actually doing what the subject says. I am just putting
electronic points in. I think I understand the difference now.

2.       If I want to go to full electronic ignition-Cranes get's very good
ratings, although they can be a bit tricky to install. I don't think I want
to go this route, I'm just trying to make a moderate investment with
moderate simplification on maintenance. The Crane's appears to be more
involved than I want to get.

3.       009 - no good. Stock Dist would be best. I am sure this is not the
stock engine. It has had some modifications to it. It has an alternator,
instead of generator, and it also has some odd contraption holding the rear
of the engine, not an original piece. So I have passed on going stock,
because I don't know what stock would be. The SVDA dist from Aircooled gets
very good reviews.

4.       Keep old distributor as a spare, in case electronic points ever
fail, I can just swap that in. Although this is a pretty rare thing to
happen.

5.       I will need to adjust timing, but supposedly only once.

6.       Hook the system up correctly, otherwise it can fry things!

7.       The SVDA gives better response from dead stop, and in the low RPM
range. The 009 has a flat spot from a dead stop. I have not really noticed
this flat spot, but it could be one of those things that once I drive a
vehicle without a flat spot, I will notice one with a flat spot.

8.       Some folks think there is no reason to change from points, and
think I should just keep them as such. The only thing is that I do not have
a heated garage. Around this time of year, I am still driving my truck, but
it is tough to find daylight, and warm weather to do simple tune up tasks,
when I also need to work. I understand 10 minutes is 10 minutes, but when
you aren't as facile at it, and it is cold out, it can take 30 minutes.

 

I'm still not clear on the carb I have. It says "SOLEX H30/31 Pict" on it.
Now the ACN website refers to the following types of carbs: "Progressive;
Stock FI; Dual Carbs; 34 Pict-3 and 34 Pict-4; 30 PIct-3 and 30/32 Brosol".
If I select the last option - "30 Pict-3, and 30/31 Brosol", the website
says "This fits the Solex 30 PICT 3, Solex 30/31 and Bocar 30/31 carbs, but
does NOT work on the 30 PICT-1 and 30 PICT-2."

 

Please excuse my ignorance on this. I don't understand which carb I have. I
understand it is a Solex. But is a "Solex H30/31 Pict" the same as a "Solex
30/31 Pict"? I guess my next question is, what do all the
numbers/designations mean in relation to the carbs? Is there a site that
explains what the different numbers/designations mean?

 

Thanks again to all for your help, comments, suggestions, personal
experience.etc.

 

-Kevin

 

'65 kombi

'69 single cab

Jamaica Plain, MA 
