From: "John Dillon" <johndillon(-at-)bellnet.ca>
To: "'John Kolak'" <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: "'Vintagebus'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 20 Mar 2009 07:59:14 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] sound deadening

.. Yeah one of the pieces did not stick at all .. I had a can of aersol glue
and that seemed to work. I also hit the seams with a squirt of Krown rust
proofing stuff. 

My plan .. is to do the major body panels with the sound stuff .. then add a
layer of bubble foil insulation .. then vapour barrier .. then interior
panels .. I'm thinking of covering the whole floor with carpet underlay ..
then lay carpet over the engine bay and down the slooping part and wheel
wells under the westy-bed .. then on top of the underlay on the floor area
I'll lay some thin plywood and vinyl flooring on top .. 

I'm not sure about the roof .. I still think spraying seams and rust spots
with Krown stuff and then applying roofing tar on the interior under the
headliner would work very well and be very economical .. but I'm not there
yet. 


jdd

You are pretty much looking at tar products here. What I like better
than roofing tar is swamp cooler coating because it has anti-rust
additives to protect the swamp cooler from rusting out. The same dept
sells an applicator brush. It's pretty stiff, so putting it on is
somewhat slow going. They sell the same product in an aerosol can, but
it is not as thick and oily, so I don't get the impression it will
protect as well. I also used the spray on undercoating from FLAPS. I
did a whole bug interior and underside with that. Seemed to work well,
and gave a good quite ride, but I don't have the vehicle anymore, so I
don't know how the rust proofing qualities compare with swamp cooler
coating.

John K

On Fri, Mar 20, 2009 at 8:30 AM, John Dillon <johndillon(-at-)bellnet.ca> wrote:
 Anyway has anyone tried just
 using roofing tar? Or that black tar-like stuff you spread on the exterior
 of foundations? Both of these products sure seem like dried up tar to me?
