Date: Thu, 26 Mar 2009 20:17:23 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: veedublover12(-at-)gmail.com
Subject: Re: How to Hot Wire a VW Bus

> From: Isaac Tait <veedublover12(-at-)gmail.com>
> Date: Thu, 26 Mar 2009 13:02:34 -0700
>
> I have a 1969 VW Bus and I need to know how to hot wire it.

You should have two red wires and one black one.  The black one is
ignition (15) and the red ones are battery (30) and starter solenoid
(50).

IMPORTANT!

Do *NOT* let any of these wires short out to the Bus body, dash,
sheet metal, steering column, etc!  The red wire from the battery
is UNFUSED - it's easy to melt your wiring harness!

Keeping that in mind: If you touch the black one to one of the red
ones, nothing will happen; that red wire is the starter wire.  If
you touch the black one to the other red one, the generator and oil
lights will come on; that red wire is the battery wire.

Once you find out which red wire makes the warning lights come on,
figure out how to get the battery red wire and the black wire
connected reasonably solidly; this connection gives the juice to your
ignition coil to keep you moving down the road.

Once you have the battery red wire and the black wire connected
solidly, step on the clutch and the brake and make sure the Bus is out
of gear.  Then touch the starter wire to the junction of the other
two wires.  There will be a spark (don't freak out) and the starter
will run.  Once the engine starts, pull the starter wire away from
the connection - you may get another spark.

Now, tape up the connection of the black wire and the battery wire
really well so it can't short out on the metal of the Bus.  See
"IMPORTANT!" above.

If you are just trying to move the Bus from the driveway into the
garage, or to get a city inspector off your back, then the above
is sufficient.  If you have to drive a Bus this way for longer than
that, it's probably worth getting a $5 toggle switch at the FLAPS
so you can at least switch the ignition on and off as you require.

Also, didn't the loafs start having locking ignition switches at
some point?  Besides the electrical part, there is a mechanical bolt
that goes into a hole in the steering column and prevents you from
turning the wheel.  Maybe you already know about this but I figured
I'd mention it; remember, you won't have a key to just switch off
if your Bus heads for a wall or your neighbor's Lexus.

With great power comes great responsibility.  If you start advertising
many Buses for sale, cheap, all with the "VIN plate delete" option, it
will look a little suspicious.  :)

Matt Roberds
