Date: Fri, 17 Apr 2009 21:32:31 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: geblinkerboxen zappanshooten

sent this to another listee awhile ago, but i think his filters ate 
it... so i throw it out to the hive mind!


  i suspect my new locale is a clue to a new problem:
when driving the other day (during mild rain in portland, but no 
lights on at time), i started hearing a 'tink -tink....tink..... 
tinktink' from the blinker box area.
whenever the sound happened, my voltmeter would jump - my eyes had to 
be on the road, so i can't say for sure whether it went up or down 
when whatever was happening was going on, but the needle vibrated 
like crazy when doing it (usually, the needle wags gently  back and 
forth when the turn signals light for example).

i went to the rear when we parked, and felt no hot or melted wires in 
the  light housings. turn signal housing never glowed, so it wasn't a 
broken t/s return spring like last time.

i am GUESSING that i might have a thimbleful of water in the turn 
signal box. i haven't had time to pull it and see.

but if not that, what else should i look at?  1970 bus, btw.

postscript: finally had a day to take apart the blinker box, and 
while the outside had surface rust, i saw no overt evidence of water 
intrusion inside.  so i put it all back in, and tested the systems; 
immediately i found that everything worked EXCEPT that the emergency 
flasher switch  would only activate the rear flashers, not the front. 
front TURN signals worked properly. i then turned over the motor, and 
tested all systems again - this time, ALL the flashers worked as they 
should when the emergency flasher knob was pulled.  still worked 
properly after engine was shut off.

haven't had a repeat of whatever the weird short was, but still 
looking for clues to tackle it next time.
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
