Date: Sun, 19 Apr 2009 23:33:44 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: geblinkerboxen zappanshooten

> From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
> Date: Fri, 17 Apr 2009 21:32:31 -0700
>
>  i suspect my new locale is a clue to a new problem:
> when driving the other day (during mild rain in portland, but no
> lights on at time), i started hearing a 'tink -tink....tink.....
> tinktink' from the blinker box area.  [...]  1970 bus, btw.

My guesstimate is that you've got a bit of water getting in somewhere,
maybe around the windshield seal, or around/into the front turn signal
reflectors or the front air vent.  If you have access to a garden hose,
you might turn it on (gently at first, no nozzle) and hose down the
outside front of your bus and see if anything gets wet on the inside.
If that doesn't do anything, go up on the water pressure a little.

The blinker box should be mostly inert until you put a load on 49a -
the blue wire that takes the pulsing voltage to the turn signal and
hazard light switches.  If you load down that wire anywhere, the
blinker box will start to try to come on.  (Take a spare exterior turn
signal lamp and a piece of insulated wire with stripped ends.  Hold the
brass base between your thumb and forefinger, with one of the wire ends
under your thumb.  Push the two solder blobs on the bottom of the lamp
against bare metal on the Bus body, and touch the other end of the wire
to 49a on the blinker box.  The box will go "tink" and the lamp will
flash.)

There are plenty of places where 49a can get loaded down - inside the
turn signal switch on the steering column, or inside the hazard flasher
switch, are probably the leading candidates, but there are other places.
49a goes through one of those three-circuit butt connectors on its way
to the turn signal switch and that might be a good place for a little
water to cause trouble.

> so i put it all back in, and tested the systems; immediately i found
> that everything worked EXCEPT that the emergency flasher switch would
> only activate the rear flashers, not the front.  front TURN signals
> worked properly.

That kinda sounds like a fault in the emergency flasher switch itself,
or maybe in the connections between R and L on the emergency flasher
switch and the four-circuit butt connector near the turn signal switch
(two wires, one black/white stripe and one black/green stripe).  You
might try a little Water Displacer 40th try down in the emergency
flasher switch to see if that helps at all.

Matt Roberds
