Date: Sun, 19 Apr 2009 23:49:12 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Front end grease.

> From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
> Date: Sat, 18 Apr 2009 18:31:46 -0700
>
> I was under my bus front end today and squirted in a fresh charge
> of grease.

You probably did it this way, but I'm pretty sure the weight has to be
off the front wheels for this to "take" properly.

> First, I was wondering if there is any consensus as to a good brand
> and type of grease to use.

There is a spec in the Bentley; if you're real bored one day, fax it
to the application engineering departments at (as it says) "well-known
mineral oil firms" and ask if their grease is up to the job.  :)

One suggestion I have is to use something that you can get more of
easily when you need it.  Theoretically, if you switch grease brands
or types, you're supposed to clean out all of the old grease first.
Cleaning out the old stuff is not that hard to do with something like
a wheel bearing but is a major undertaking for the front end on a Bus.
If you mostly prowl around town or to the occasional campout, then
hitting off of whatever's in the grease gun in your garage is probably
a good plan.  But if you go on road trips a lot, it might help to use
a brand that is easy to find at the national FLAPS or discount store
chains.  On the other hand, grease is better than no grease, and if I
was on the road and found out that something was totally dry, I would
shoot in whatever I could get, without too much regard to what was in
there before.

> Second, I noticed that all my seals on the torsion arms and the king
> pins are badly cracked and one on a king pin is falling off.  Any
> recomendations on sourcing these?

Jim Thompson might chime in here, but I wasn't aware that there was
more than one actual manufacturer for these.  My guess would be to get
in touch with West Coast Metric, since they seem to do just about
everything else that's rubber on a VW.  Another idea might be that
when you grease the front end in the future, and the old grease comes
out around the seals, wipe a little of it over the outside surface of
the seals to keep them from drying out.  If you've got anything in
your garage that makes sparks (and hence a little ozone) or ultraviolet
light (under the Bus??), either of those might tend to reduce the
lifetime of rubber things.

Matt Roberds
