From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 22 Apr 2009 16:33:27 -0400
Subject: taking it apart update

Well I have almost all the panels out-except for the two above the driver
and passenger seat. They are wedged in there tight. I want to use them for
templates, so I don't want to destroy them taking them out. Any suggestions
here would be appreciated. Maybe I need to wait until it is cold and dry
out. It is now cool and damp/raining. That may be swelling the wood enough
to make it hard to remove.

I can see where water was infiltrating behind the windows. The pop-out
window on the passenger side was always leaking, even after I had taken the
frame apart, sand blasted, re-painted, and installed all new seals. I'm not
sure what I am going to do here when I put this all together again, I don't
want water coming in here! The other windows that were leaking are the
crankout EZ-camper variety. The leaks here were around the frame, it appears
as though the sealant was no longer sealing. Also the seal between the glass
and the metal frame was no good. I think I will not use a gasket here, but
rather some type of flexible caulk. Any recommendations on caulk/sealant for
here?

The worst rot was on the floor where the cargo door shut. This is rusted all
the way through in some spots. The metal has swollen a lot. The other bad
spot is behind the drivers seat at the floor/bottom of the pillar. This is
also rusted through. I think water was coming in from the window above it,
and it was also getting hit from the front tire spraying gunk.

Behind all the panels is some yellow foam of varying thicknesses and various
state of rot. Although about 90% of it is ok. But I still want to remove it
all and install a better foam. Most of it cam out pretty easily, but there
is still about 10% that is stuck. Any suggestions on removing this stuff? I
was just going to go at it with some plastic puty knives, but thought there
may be some chemical that would make the removal more complete and easier.
Something like acetone, or pain thinner? Any ideas-I'm open to them.

Thanks,

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA 
