Date: Mon, 22 Jan 2007 13:11:21 -0800 (PST)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Shipping parts to Canada

That's ridiculous, Richard!  I never heard of having to pay duties on second-hand items.  Thanks for the warning, though.  I doubt there is a weight limit that triggers it.  Probably a random thing.  

I had a run-in with them north of Mackinaw Island, MI once.  Had a Russian girlfriend with me and she didn't have the right visa.  Not fun.  Then I got hassled on the American side.  Once we were refused entry into Canada, they directed me into a garage where nine menacing-looking agents with guns and vests surrounded the car and two of them proceeded to tear it apart.  Finally they let up when Tatiana fished her visa and papers out of her luggage.  It was Orwellian.  Bureaucracy can be a real drag.  And it's all about the money.   Cheers...KR

Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com> wrote: I thought I'd seen it all shipping eBay/other items to Canada. In general, I avoid Fedex/UPS when shipping items to Canada because of the brokerage charges but it seems you can't always escape extra fees even using USPS.

Last week the box I sent was opened by Customs and they declared the contents were worth more than the invoice value. I was aware of undervaluing goods but I was still shocked by what followed as it was relayed to me.

They proceeded to call local dealers in town to assess the current market value for used second hand items I mailed, one by one.

None of the dealers had any idea so the Customs agent went to eBay, picked one of the auction items at its current bid price (it appears they chose the lowest of the three I could find on ebay.ca) and charged PST/GST on that value. Since Customs and the tax man are the same entity in Canada I suppose they can do whatever they want but I still found this action ludicrous.

Next time before I ship, I better start an auction for the same item and charge $500 shipping to keep the bids low. Crazy?

Does anyone know what size/weight of box triggers the inspectors?


 
---------------------------------
Now that's room service! Choose from over 150,000 hotels 
in 45,000 destinations on Yahoo! Travel to find your fit.
