Date: Thu, 25 Jan 2007 17:55:46 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: general article on thermocouples

http://www.picotech.com/applications/thermocouple.html

	A main practical point, emphasized by several T2 TempSleuths, 
is that the 'cold junction' should be at a steady temp.  If this cold 
junction temp is not 0 0C, that causes systematic deviation from 
accuracy in the gauge readings e.g 350 0C instead of 375 0C, 
according to how much hotter than 0 0C is the place where you've 
stuck the 'cold' junctions.  This is usually unimportant for our 
purposes.  The point is trends, not absolute temps.  It matters far 
more whether the cyl head temp CHT increases by, say, 120 0 during a 
few min running than whether the CHT at the start of this was 175 as 
distinct from 225.
	It follows that crude thermostatting of the cool junction is 
much more important than whether it is thermostatted at exactly 0 0. 
Just over the transmission, unless pre-empted for contraband, is a 
good suggestion; but I don't see why under the carpet just in front 
of the rear seat isn't as well thermostatted.

	BTW one reason I bought the single Westach gauge rather than 
their much more expensive quad gauge is that the single is marked in 
0C which my country converted to 4 decades ago whereas the USA 
quaintly stuck with the quirky 0F (5/9 the size) as well as the old 
British Thermal Unit instead of the Joule, and generally the 
'imperial' units instead of the international system based on metre, 
kilogram, second.  I still think in inches, feet but have more or 
less converted to Celsius.  No endorsement of continental decadence 
is implied  ;-)

	BalsoTW a minor importer of Berkeley in 1966 used to drive 
his Karmann Ghia to rendezvous c.70 mi South of The Border, and buy 
bricks of compressed resinous marijuarnuh from people who could read 
his licence-plate.  He would then cruise northward again, shake any 
tail, and slip up a side gulch to remove a couple wheels.  The bricks 
having been arrayed roughly radially symmetrically around each 
tubeless tyre, he would reinflate with a pump plugged into the cigar 
lighter socket.  (Karmann Ghia drivers don't use mere ordinary 
cigarettes but affect the style entailed in cigars.)  At the San 
Diego border his air-cleaner would be taken apart, seats yanked out, 
etc. by USA Customs agents who'd received his number from the 
enterprising Mexicans hoping to recycle the bricks while collecting 
payoffs as in the fabled Matamoros/Brownsville recycling rort.  Our 
Berkeley man would budget a couple hour to read quietly off to one 
side at the border post while they failed to find anything 
incriminating.  He would then cruise at low but not suspicious speeds 
to a quiet side-road S. of San Diego, remove the bricks into a 
loosely airtight container within the car, reinflate to proper 
pressures, and cruise home at the speed limit. 
	'Over the transmission' probably wouldn't have worked at all 
well with those customs agents.  But don't bother to try to slap 
thermocouple 'cold' junctions into tyres  -  they probably vary in 
temp more than under the carpet/plywood over the metal floor.

R
