Date: Thu, 25 Jan 2007 15:36:43 -0700
From: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: New VW Design Chief

http://www.businessweek.com/innovate/content/jan2007/id20070126_867237.htm?ca
mpaign_id=rss_daily

Walter de'Silva Heads up Volkswagen Design
The shake up and shuffles at VW continue
Innovation & Design


Volkswagen has just announced that Walter de'Silva, 55, has been
appointed Head of Volkswagen Group Design. Since March 2002, de'Silva
has been Head of Design at the now discontinued Audi brand group.
There, in addition to supervising the Audi brand design, he was also
in charge of SEAT and Lamborghini. With his new position he will be
responsible for design for all Volkswagen Group passenger car brands,
including Bentley, Bugatti and Skoda. The change of direction will be
effective February 1st 2007, although we understand de'Silva to be
active in this position as of this week.

Before joining the Volkswagen Group at SEAT in 1999, Walter de'Silva
was in charge of Alfa Romeo's Centro Stile since 1986. At Alfa, during
the nineties, de'Silva led the renewal of the brand's design language
and very effective repositioning. His long career in the automotive
world began at Centro Stile FIAT in 1972, when he was just 21 years
old. This experience was followed by nine years at I.DE.A Institute
under the direction of Franco Mantegazza and Renzo Piano before being
recruited by Alfa Romeo.

With this new global design leadership position for Volkswagen Group,
Walter de'Silva replaces Murat Gunak, who is leaving the company
abruptly "by mutual agreement" as stated by Volkswagen. Gunak joined
Volkswagen in 2003 after working for Mercedes-Benz, Peugeot and Ford.

These changes occur after some major management shuffles at VW; among
them the departure at the end of this month of Wolfgang Bernhard CEO
of Volkswagen brand, and the appointment of Volkswagen Group CEO
Martin Winterkorn in November, who was previously chairman of
Audiwhere he would have worked closely with de'Silva.
-----------------

This might just be a good thing, along with the leaving of the two
CEO's recently.

--
Don
The Guacamole Bus
http://www.donimages.com/guac
