Date: Wed, 08 Nov 2006 21:27:35 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Mike Benthin <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
Subject: Re: Fw: [T2] Fw: 1978 bus Air flow meter problem?

Mike Benthin wrote:
> Mike S., Normally the air flow meter air measuring vane should indeed 
> keep the pump running after the starter switch is released and engine 
> has caught.  More accurate and easier (than yanking the air filter and 
> swticking a pencil against the vane would be to jump 36 and 39 contacts 
> in the AFM plug. However, it is possible the switch contact is faulty (a 
> backfire could cause this) and note that the fuel pump gets the power 
> from the double relay (being switched by the AMF contact or the starter 
> switch).  The double relay may have faulty contacts.  When I had the 

I would respectfully disagree.  Because you don't know if it's the 
double relay or AFM that's faulty, that's more reason to use a pencil 
and/or lift the lid off the AFM and move the vane.  Not only are you 
testing the correct function of the AFM fuel switch, you're also 
checking that your double relay is working correctly, the wiring is ok, 
and you'll know that you're fuel pump is working correctly all in one 
shot.  No yanking any cables, just pull off the air filter and pop a 
screwdriver in there.  Couldn't get much easier.  And, you don't get 
dirty in the process, or have to worry about making sure you hook up the 
fuel pump wires correctly after taking them off.

> problem of the fuel pump not working when it got hot, it was simpler to 
> lie under there with my jumper wire from the pump positive and touch it

Like above, you're bypassing the whole system and therefore not testing 
the actual circuit.  If the AFM switch and the double relay are proven 
to be faulty, then a jumper is in order, but I wouldn't go through the 
extra hassle before checking the AFM and double relay operation first.

> to the direct feed from the batter and "listen" for the pump -and if it 
> does whirr, verify pressure by someone watching the gauge I hooked to 
> the fuel ring.

lastly, you can see the pressure yourself if you do it all from the 
engine compartment.  You're really making your life more difficult than 
it needs to be ;)

Mike
