From: "Todd Olson" <todd.olson(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 9 Nov 2006 21:29:38 -0500
Subject: Buses By the Beach Website Version 3.0 is up and running and is

The Buses By the Beach.com website has been updated and it is new and
improved. Check it out and let us know what you think. Below is a message
from our webmaster Billy Hirt. A big thanks goes out to Billy for all of the
hours he has put into this project! Check out the new site at
www.busesbythebeach.com <http://www.busesbythebeach.com/>  

Hello fellow Volks Folks!

     I am happy to announce that the website has been rebuilt and is better
than ever.  At present it should again function with ALL browsers and
operating systems.  If you encounter any problems please let
me know at zbillman(-at-)comcast.net so I can rectify the problem.  Below is a
list of the changes/enhancements to the web site. Happy browsing!

Web site was made to work again with ALL browsers
Site was integrated  into one window.  No more pop up window for the main
site!
Event specific slide shows were added th the home page and the scrolling
pics removed.
The events page has been reworked and now shows dates 3 yrs in advance for
all 3 events along with next years flier and information on each event.
The downloads page has also been reworked and some additional BBTB info has
been added.  Also, now you are able to download print ready BBTB logos.
The contact page has been changed to a form style email page.
The for sale page has been removed.  This may return at a later date.
A link to sign up for the BBTB email list has been added to main menu.
The sponsor page has been updated with a new silver level sponsor.  Grand
Rogue Campground and Paddle Sports. <http://www.grandrogue.com> 
You'll notice at the bottom that we are an officially licensed VW enthusiast
web site.  I love seeing the VW logo at the bottom of the page.
Last but not least the picture page has been revamped into a gallery page.
With this new gallery you'll be able to view albums of each event by year
without leaving the page.  You can print hi rez versions and view slide
shows.  The best part is that there is an album here for you. In the user
album you are able to create your own albums and upload pitures to them.  No
more excuses to not be sharing your pictures with everyone.  Instructions on
how to do this are included in the user album.  If Todd Olson can figure out
how to upload his own pics than it'll be easy for all of you.  But, if you
have questions please feel free to email me and I will be glad to help.

Welcome back to Buses by The Beach dot com
Billy Hirt
Buses By the Beach 

Coming Events: 

Bus BRR! February 10th - 11th 2007 Angola, IN

Bus Benefit! May 18th - 20th 2007 Grand Rapids, MI 

Bus Boo! September 14th - 16th 2007 Grand Rapids, MI

For more information go to:
<file:///C:%5CDocuments%20and%20Settings%5CHP_Administrator%5CApplication%20
Data%5CMicrosoft%5CSignatures%5Cwww.busesbythebeach.com>
www.busesbythebeach.com
