From: "Jeff Stewart" <fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Nov 2006 10:39:14 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] It was running when I parked it...

Share your stories of the "It was running when I parked it." sale or any
other common statement like, "the motor was just rebuilt by a VW engineer"
or "I just drove it to some far-off distant land".


I've heard all these plus:
 
1) It's rust free (meaning all the rust holes are filled with tons of bondo). I looked at one Westy years ago that the seller told me "didn't have a speck of rust, anywhere". It was one of the poorest bondo jobs I've ever seen, it looked like the bondo was applied with a spatula, and there had not even been an attempt to sand it, it was just painted over-with paint that didn't match! It must have been carrying 500 pounds of bondo, the front seats were ripped to shreds, and the guy wanted $3,500.00 firm for it because it was "rare"! 

2) Years ago I used to drive through older neighborhoods looking for old VW's parked at the side or behind houses. I was looking for anything and everything-Bugs, Ghia's, Westy's. I found plenty, all in some stage of neglect and obviously not driven lately. I'd knock on the door, or if no one was there I'd leave a note offering to purchase the car. EVERY time I got the same response-"Oh, no, I can't sell that, it's too valuable, it's a collecters item, I'm going to restore it". I also kept a log book of addresses where I found these treasures. As long 2-3 years later I would drive by these houses-in every case the VW was still there-most times in a worse state than when I had first seen it. One, a '64 Bug, which looked pretty good the first time, was now buried under plywood and other garbage. The story was still the same- not willing to sell. What the hell were these people waiting for? I'm sure that once they all became basket cases, these idiots would finally decide to sell-but probably want a premium price. It was very frustrating.

3) In 1980 I bought a '67 Deluxe bus that the seller said had "a minor oil leak". The bus was in nice shape, and even had a gas heater. I didn't make it 5 miles from his house when the oil light came on. It was leaking oil faster than the Exxon Valdez. Turns out it was just the oil cooler seals, no big deal, and at a purchase price of $500.00, it's the one VW I now regret selling more than any other!

4) My favorite question that I'm asked when selling a Westy (I'm in Virginia) "Will it make it Califorinia?"


Jeff
