Date: Wed, 22 Sep 2004 10:12:36 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type_2_list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I feel GOOD!

Since my last carb tune just a week or two ago, the idle had jumped up
to 1600 rpm. I left it until I get another chance to dive in, but
figured I really just needed carb rebuilds.

There's a rattle in my bottomend that I've been wanting to chase down.
Colin gave me some tips to go find it, but I wasn't really getting
anywhere without a stethoscope. Well, I had an idea. Use a piece of
plastic tube, 1" in diameter, which I happened to have around. I was
going to try it this weekend when I could spend some time on it.

Then yesterday on the way home from work the bus suddenly stopped
idling. Ran fine, but no idle. I decided to park it until this
weekend. But my coworker called me last night and asked me to work
until 6 today instead of 4. As a bonus, I wouldn't have to come in
until 12. =D So this morning was a good time to dive in.

Fired it up, ran back quickly before the revs died down so I could
hold the throttle and started poking around. Couldn't find a single
thing. Spraying carb cleaner all over didn't reveal any vacuum leaks
either. On a whim I pulled out the above mentioned plastic pipe. BAM!
Found a vacuum leak in the right EGR valve. Yeah, the one I had
slobbed JBWeld all over to seal up. The leak was coming from the front
of the mating shim, exactly where the carb cleaner couldn't spray.

Shut down, break out the RTV, and slobber it all over the mating
point. Wrap in hi-temp duct tape to give the RTV something to grab
onto. I didn't want to do anything that couldn't be removed because
I'm still hoping to find a proper plug to put there.. Decided to let
things cool down and the RTV to harden some, so pulled the dizzy to
re-grease the points. (Never in my life did I think I'd be talking so
casually about pulling a distributor!) Used the points lube that was
sent to me by a list member after cleaning up all the old grease and
such. Reassembled. Crap, dwell is at 30. Oh, well. I'll finish that
one up this weekend.

Fired up again, idle all jacked up, but a quick tweaking of the
mixture and idle speed settled it right down. It sets perfectly at
850rpm now. Nice and stable. WooHoo!!! Timing still at a whisker above
7BTDC (where it likes to be) and took a run for gas.

MUCH BETTER!!! Even more power than before!!! 

Anyone who says that the stock dual carbs suck has never driven a bus
with them tuned nicely. Nice power all through the power band. Smooth
accelleration.

Now, I'd still prefer FI, but it's nice to have things set and
balanced properly, regardless of the technology. Only downside is the
roughness at very light throttle. Like barely touching the pedal. And
I think that's an unbalanced linkage issue which I'll have to tackle
when I get a unisync and more time.

-- 
Don Tuleja
1973 WasaWestyNowaHiTop
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
