Date: Fri, 6 Aug 2004 16:22:10 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: west coast loafer <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] I dont get it - pollution - FRIDAY

Regardless what goes on, individually none of us are going to burn more than a tiny fraction of fuel compared to fleet vehicles, the military and the rich or corporate folks who fly around the world all the time in private jets. 

Not to say none of us should be reckless with our pollution or fuel - just a few folks throwing trash out their windows will ruin the looks of a place just the same, everybody being a bit wasteful leads to alot of waste when totalled up. I think that made sense... 

I don't know about you but my wife and I use less than $25 a week in fuel shared between 2 vehicles. More if we go see granny (additional $20). 

I guess if I had been Gerald I would have worried more about the dilution of the oil by the raw fuel, and the lessened amount of lube for the valve train during extended idling vs. the pollution (not good either). I idled my Beetle never more than maybe 10 minutes when it was below freezing, and usually more like 3-4 minutes in the winter. It made more heat with a load on it than it did simplying idling. 

Taking a jab at a generation is to me akin to the absurd legislation the powers that be are constantly pushing that will one way or another remove all vehicles that don't smell new inside or have greater than 50K miles on them... <grin!> 1 old car must be dirty and with a smokey exhaust, so the whole fleet must be destroyed!

Age and attrition will kill off the old cars under daily use just fine leaving a fleet of special occasion vehicles (antiques and customs). I figure they will add some sort of increasing registration fees on cars - old = more fees, and inspections that eliminate these cars under the guise of safety. I like old cars because the parts are generally cheap(er), junkyard donors are available, distinction (good conversation starter, unique people attracter), and I can run with liability insurance lessening the cost of ownership even more. 

I LOVE our old VW's. I like to think they are somewhat environmentally friendly b/c they get a new engine from time to time, vs. throwing the whole thing away and getting a new car (like the rest of society). New cars make pollutions to - all that manufacturing infrastructure! 

http://tnr.com/dhtml/dhtml-menu-all.mhtml

http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2004/08/02/opinion/main633509.shtml

Chris
'78 VW Westy (Corvair powered)
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
'65 Beetle 2.0
'99 CR-V EX AWD
