Date: Sat, 07 Aug 2004 04:30:46 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)mail.buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Rusted rattle clips on disk brakes

My 76 Westy developed a braking noise that was both annoying and alarming. 
Every time the brakes were applied, this metallic scream would be heard. 
Metal was clearly grinding against metal, and in brake systems that is not 
a good thing, Martha. I had visions of bare metal brake shoes grinding into 
the hubs....and other nightmarishly expensive damage perhaps to rotors or 
calipers. But it seemed to be coming from the front end of the bus.

With the front wheels off and the cob webs brushed off the calipers, the 
metal clips that look like a Maltese Cross between the two sides of each 
caliper were obviously rusted, covered with rust scale, and slightly 
cracked. These clips keep the brake pads from rattling. All this sound was 
coming from about a centimeter of metal riding against the spinning rotor 
during braking.

The clips had cracked and edges of the cracked clip were contacting the 
rotor and producing the screaming metal-on-metal sound when the brakes were 
applied. Even with the clips removed, the only evidence of their 
responsibility for the noise was a polished edge about a millimeter thick 
on the rusted clip. And I had to have the clip off and in my hand to even 
notice the polished surface.

I puzzled about the noise for weeks before I took off the wheels and broke 
down the calipers/pads and found the rusty clips. I don't drive the bus as 
my regular ride, and the sound began more as a mild rumble upon 
braking.......which didn't alarm me sufficiently to take off the wheels and 
do a close inspection.

So, I'm telling you about this because your brake systems may be harboring 
similar rusty clips that will eventually crack and cause similar mysterious 
sounds and symptoms.

Most old buses will have similar rusted clips, unless they have been 
replaced already during a brake pad service. But many owners will be 
running ancient clips because someone previous owner just kept dropping in 
new pads throughout the life of their vehicle.

Bus Depot sells front brake kits that contain these clips. If you want to 
buy the clips singly, NAPA can order them for you for about six bucks each 
and you can pick them up in about two days at the store after you order them.

Doyt Echelberger
Ohio   USA
