To: Type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Timothy Woenker <multipang(-at-)kconline.com>
Date: Mon, 9 Aug 2004 12:41:18 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Re-calibrating AFM?

Hi All:

I'm aware of the implications of adjusting the spring tension on the 
AFM, and that everyone says not to mess with it.  From what it looks 
like to me, the way you perform this adjustment is by rotating the gear 
shaped piece that holds the tension spring.  Therefore reducing tension 
would result in a richer mixture and increasing tension would result in 
a leaner mixture.  Am I correct?

The reason that I am thinking of doing this is because my bus is 
burning valves apparently from running lean.  In the past 12,000 miles 
I have burned through two sets of heads (valves/seats).  This is 
getting expensive and time consuming.  WIth my latest set of heads, 
I've installed a CHT and discovered that my head temps are high, (500F 
at 60 mph).  As a test, I installed a potentiometer in series with temp 
sensor II to artificially enrich the mixture and immediately dropped 
the head temps to 400 at 65 mph.  It therefore appears that I'm running 
lean.  I've meticulously sealed the induction system when the heads 
were installed (both times) using new seals and hoses.  I've tried to 
check for vacuum leaks various ways (spraying water, carb cleaner and 
acetylene, hooking up a vacuum gauge and disconnecting one vacuum hose 
at a time and plugging the inlet. etc) and can't find any vacuum leaks. 
  I even replaced the AFM with a different unit (albeit a used one from 
Karl).  In other words, I've tried everything that I can think of to 
determine why it might be running lean.  The engine runs and starts 
perfectly, hot or cold with no misses or stumbles.

BTW; I'm an experienced bus pilot.  I've owned this bus since 1990 and 
aircooled VWs continuously since 1975;  all tin, grommets, seals and 
engine compartment foam seal are in place, and the thermostat is set 
correctly.  The exhaust is the stock California setup for model year 
'79 with the cat knocked out (per the suggestion of Leonard at AVP--- 
which did not help) and there are no exhaust leaks.  Lifters set at 1 
turn in.  Timing (stock electronic) is set to the specified 5 degrees 
ATDC (DVDA distributor), though I've tried different timing settings 
which did not improve CHT readings.  The injectors have been flow 
tested and cleaned, but were found to be operating and flowing 
correctly before they were cleaned.  The fuel pressure is within 
specification when tested per Bentley.  The only anomaly that I can 
find is that the vacuum reading at the plenum ( the tap for the fuel 
pressure regulator) is running around 11 inches Hg.  I've been told 
that this should be around 15 to 18 inches Hg, but as I mentioned 
earlier, I can find no vacuum leak.  I'm wondering whether the lower 
vacuum reading might be due to the smaller diameter exhaust valves on 
the '79 square port heads.

Since we don't have emissions testing here in Indiana, I have not been 
able to find a shop with an exhaust gas analyzer that is willing to 
work with me.  Probst gives some information about calibrating the AFM 
using the output of the oxygen sensor.  (I have a stock Cal emissions 
bus).  I thought I might try that re-calibration before I spring for a 
rebuilt AFM.

Tim Woenker
stock '79 westy
