Date: Tue, 09 Dec 2003 11:28:03 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Jason Z Upper <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] noise when starting heater

On Tuesday, December 09, 2003, at 08:02AM, Jason Z Upper <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:

>The screeching noise is probably from the blower fan.  If the bearings are 
>going bad (as most of them do), it will make a screech.  If the situation 
>gets bad enough, you may need to replace the blower.  Not a big job, and not 
>too annoying.  To try to wring some more life out of your current blower, 
>you may want to remove it from the Bus, disassemble it, and re-grease all 
>the parts.  That should hold you until the weather gets warm.

I just went through this problem. My motor was squealing, seizing and blowing fuses in an attempt to turn over. I removed mine and took a close look on the advice that the bearing had gone and I should replace it.

Well, I'd like to see the photos of this motor taken apart...once you remove it from the engine compartment and remove the shroud you'll notice that the motor was assembled and sealed by folding the thick metal case onto itself. Although I'm sure it's possible to disassemble and service but it will be very hard to reassemble in my opinion.

I looked into having it repaired. AEG/Lafert have local service depots but the cost is probably not worth it since a junkyard motor can be had for peanuts.

At the junkyard, I took a long a small 12v battery from my motorcycle (I wish I had a smaller one) to test some motors figuring there was a good change I'd end up with a dud like mine.

The first inspection you should make it to try to rotate the squirrel cage by hand. One a new motor in newish condition the only resistance you should feel are soft clicks. On a more worn motor it will rotate without the clicks but spin freely. As you find motors in worse condition you'll hear grinding/scraping and the shaft may move from side to side. Those motors are toast.

There are two styles of motors. An early style with two leads coming out of the motor and a later style with a plug on the back to accept a connector. Either will work but you may have to tweak the wiring.

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell
Cupertino, CA
