Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>
Date: Tue, 9 Dec 2003 23:05:50 -0700
To: "Brandt Hart" <brandthart(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Heat: Atwood Bilge Blower?

I wouldn't recommend the Atwood Blower, but certainly a bilge blower of 
another sort.

I ran an Atwood for less than 3 months, only the last little bit in 
cold weather and it started making a funny noise and ultimately 
crapping out all together. It was sealed from the outside so there 
wasn't any debris or water getting in and I didn't run it for many 
hours, I would say 12 hours maybe total over the period of 3 months. I 
will be trying out a Rule or Detmar blower next.

These are certainly NOT quiet blowers, when moving 240 cfm of air they 
make a fair swack of noise, they do however move a lot more air than 
stock. I just set my vents at the "right" spot (a bit out of all of 
them) and it hustles the air out. The 4" bilge blowers move A LOT of 
air. When I want quiet I run my stock blower only.

I cut the single pipe under the bus and mounted it inline there, it was 
easy to do and is easy to get at. It also allows for some great places 
to run power cables from the front. It doesn't interfere with the 
heater duct insulation I have over my main tube either.

I ran power to a 5 amp fuse to a standard illuminated switch then to 
the blower (ground etc of course). This means I have to remember to 
turn it off but you cant miss the sound of it being on ! I don't know 
if you can use a dimmer to control the speed or not, I didn't try it.

My power line comes from the fuse panel below my dash, behind the kick 
panels and out one of the holes that drop into the pan area where the 
accel, break and shifter are located, I then ran it back following the 
various cable ducts/holes to where my blower is situated. Being the 
paranoid type I ran a ran my power wire through a section of spare fuel 
hose to protect from road solvents, snagging and who knows what else 
when it leaves the front pan.

My next heating project is going to be to take out my single stock 
blower and put two turbo style (flexmount) bilge blowers in the engine 
bay pushing air to one heat exchanger each. I am hoping this will allow 
me enough air to finally run a vent out from under my rear bench.

It gets mighty cold here in Calgary, Canada. That and driving out to 
the mountains 3 days a week I obsess a little about heat.

I'm sure I neglected to answer something so feel free to e-mail me,

Steve
73 Safare
