Date: Tue, 09 Dec 2003 22:21:32 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: midgard(-at-)dragon.org
Cc: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Please buy my 1984 Vanagon.

Well said again, Timothy.
Courtney 
 
-------Original Message-------
 
From: T.
Date: Monday, December 08, 2003 09:36:36 PM
To: Doktor Tim
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Please buy my 1984 Vanagon.
 
On Dec 8, 2003, at 8:57 PM, Doktor Tim wrote:
 
> That's what I love about this list. Lot's of people around who know so 
> much more than the engineers.
 
Thank you for that back-handed compliment. Your logic is flawed. You 
allude to my knowing more than the engineers; you almost imply that you 
are one of them -- transference of the argument from your accusing me 
of incompetence to the engineers who cannot discuss newer technologies 
and discoveries in auto mechanics since 1984. The flaw is self-evident. 
Furthermore, you go further to not merely accuse me of incompetence, 
but this whole list. I would caution you to not ruffle a lot of 
innocents' feathers in the name of your own wounded pride.
 
 
> At 06:49 PM 12/08/2003, you wrote:
>> Well said Timothy.
>> Courtney
>> Well, while you did not mean to bash me, you sent it on-list, and so
>> made it appear as if I were an incompetent VW owner
>
> Join the club, Tim. Just trying to save you all money. Throw it at 
> whatever makes you feel good. Pretend to know better than those who 
> conceived the design, built and tested it and gave it to you and 
> others to abuse with "feel good" specs.
 
Well thank you for that wonderful permission! To think all these years 
I have been driving my van, I have been running it into the ground! And 
yet I have had under $1000 in total out of pocket repairs! I guess I 
need to go throw some money the way you must have. God forbid I should 
have some how managed to care for this fine van without your constant 
attention to the details.
 
> Stupid is as stupid does. Do as you will, as will I.
 
I guess this "stupid is as stupid does" must surely had been a 
self-confession to the mistake you made for bashing me on the list as 
opposed to going off-list. So, I accept your backward apology, and I 
extend mine forward. I apologize to you for having intruded upon your 
VW bliss by being honest with the potential buyers.
 
> Regards,
 
Ok, rant off. What works for one may not work as well for another. It 
depends upon uses of the vehicle. Sure, one needs oil, coolant, belts, 
ad nauseam to have a happy VW, but please, if you didn't mean to 
publicly bash, you should have gone off-list in your reply. If you were 
so concerned that I was driving toward absolute VW melt-down, then why 
is it that you didn't explain how I managed 122K miles on the van that 
I've (in your opinion) so badly abused? If you wanted to make me look 
like a butt-wipe, then buy my van, and tear it apart and show me that 
you are right, and I was a bad owner! Anyway, whatever.
 
Have a nice one. Caveat Emptor.
 

. 
