Date: Wed, 10 Dec 2003 10:49:11 -0600
From: Chris Mills <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Brandt Hart <brandthart(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Heat: Atwood Bilge Blower?

>I cut the single pipe under the bus and mounted it inline there, it was 
>easy to do and is easy to get at. It also allows for some great places to 
>run power cables from the front. It doesn't interfere with the heater duct 
>insulation I have over my main tube either.

The Atwood box says 176 degrees F is the temp limit for these plastic 
fans... If it is inline with the main trunk expect less than a long life as 
you're going to melt it. Also... I'll say it again:

VW put the fan before the heater boxes. The shade tree mechanic population 
likes to put it in the main trunk. VW put it before the heater boxes for 
two reasons - it wouldn't cook the fan. Also and more importantly if there 
are any leaks in the system and any CO floating around the leaks - that 
bildge blower up from is going to suck the fumes into the system and 
deposit them inside with you.

With the fan in the stock location above the engine and before the heater 
boxes any leaks in the system will leak air OUT and not suck fumes inside 
the system...

If I'm preaching to the choir here, never mind. Just want you to have some 
info. Your life is yours. Oh - just don't die when you're getting ready to 
pass me in the other direction (in other words when you die don't take me 
with you... <grin>)

>My next heating project is going to be to take out my single stock blower 
>and put two turbo style (flexmount) bilge blowers in the engine bay 
>pushing air to one heat exchanger each. I am hoping this will allow me 
>enough air to finally run a vent out from under my rear bench.

What I've got plans to try is/was - may not be compatible with my Corvair 
transplant - was to pull fresh air through a single 3" blower feeding the 
left heater box. The blower I was going to add to the right side would 
recirculate the interior air so I was always adding fresh air to the 
interior and also building up interior heat.

Also - if you have the 78 style exhaust with the U-pipes... The factory 
versions were double walled. The interior pipe is stainless steel. The 
exterior was just plain steel. It rotted off ages ago on most busses I 
suspect. I had the pleasure of driving a bus with this intact (newly 
arrived from New Mexico) and it's heater output was hugely better than it 
is now several years later with literally no changes in the system.

Options: you could wrap the pipes but I've got a Corvair turbo pipe that 
was wrapped for a season and what it did to the metal is amazing... 
Overcooked it. Other option is to weld new plain steel over the inner pipe 
of the horseshoe pipe. Other is to switch to early baywindow exhaust ala '72.

Good luck and teach us what you learn...

Lastly I walked into the local boat store (small town even) and bought my 
blowers off the shelf a couple years ago for $17 each. No need to pay 
shipping and order from half-way across the country unless you want to...


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
1972 Hodaka Wombat 125cc moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
wife, kiddo, dog, and various slightly used cats
