Date: Wed, 10 Dec 2003 11:38:50 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bad hydraulic lifters (rant)

Ben:

You all are reading what we all are writing, but there's a disconnect
here - let me re-phase this in a way that may be a little more
understandable, m'kay?

How "rock-hard" are those lifters in your '71 Super listed in your sig
line?  Pretty "rock-hard", no?  There's an attempt here to compare
apples with jelly-fish, so don't try to get the two lined up, 'cause
there's more to it than what meets the orb.  Put on your thimking cap,
and follow along...

What you have going on is that you have 7 bled down lifters that need to
be re-primed.  That's all, end of woeful tale, get over it and drive on.
Say it fast 5 times and you win a prize.  As others have pointed out
it's something do-able in the comfort of your own garage, kitchen or
living room, and you don't need to drag those poor lifters all over town
for another opinion.  For the life of me, I've NEVER been able to get
the priming directions in Bentley (and other places) to work - you
"might" be able to get oil into the upper chamber of the lifter by doing
the "ol' jump up 'n down on it using the pushrod" routine, but in my
pre-Internet days, I figured out what many others have since writ here
in the Type 2 List...  BTW - Do them one at a time, so's you can get
them back in the appropriate hole from whence they emerged.  By
disassembling the lifter in question, dropping it into a wide pan of oil
with the part facing the rocker arms up (UpisUp), and gently depressing
the flapper valve thingie with an appropriate doohickey, the lower
chamber can fill with oil.  Keep the outer inner part what's-it
depressed with a small screwdriver around the edge of the what's-it, and
then you can drop the inner inner part of the what's-it, let it settle
in and get the wirey snap-ring in place while the whole schmutz is still
in it's depressed condition.  If you tell it a joke, and you and it
start laughing too hard, you may lose control and the majik fluid may
leave suddenly...  If that happens, just start over 'til you get it
right.  The really odd thing is that once you let off with the
screwdriver, the whole what's-it will rise against the spring pressure
(there's a spring in the lower chamber) to the height of the snap-ring,
and will be somewhat "rock-hard" due to the incompressability of the
majik fluid (oil) found in both chambers.

For the techno-weezoids amongst us:  Web-Cam specifically warns against
dissassembly of their hydro lifters and gives the same lame-oh
directions for priming them.  Not wishing to invalidate my warranty, I
rustled myself up a vacuum pump, a sealed jar full of 30wt Rotella,
plopped each lifter in the oil and let nature do what nature does
(abhors a vacuum) for about an hour or so...  Voila!  Primed lifters,
and no messy warranty invalidation either...

Like yourself, I used to think that somehow the circulating oil pressure
somehow and directly (as if by majik), did all the adjustments - it does
kinda/sorta but it's more of an indirect method.  Once I finally
disabused myself of that original notion, I found that I could get my
hydraulics to work just they way they do in bazillions of cars around
the globe, and my beasts ran like clocks.  The trick is that BOTH
chambers must have the oil in them for starters, otherwise you're just
pitting the big ol' valve spring against the little ol' spring in the
lower chamber of the lifter.  Guess which one wins?

I've got a periodically soft lifter on my '73 Deluxe with a 2.0L -
fortunately it's only one, and now that I know the guilty party, I let
the other 7 "rock-hard" ones take the guff, by leaving it at #4 TDC when
I'm not driving it, or firing it up to make sure everyone else is
"pumped".  Just recently, I had not fired it up for a couple weeks and
it REALLY bled off, so I did as others have suggested and ran it at 2K
rpms in the driveway, and it helped but not much.  Ultimately, I had to
drive it for about 20 minutes clattering all the way to my VW FLAPS for
some parts for the '72 Weekender.  As I fired it up to leave and rounded
the first corner, the noises finally stopped.  Leaving it at #4 TDC
really seems to help with the bleeding off, and one day soon I'll pull
the lifters on that cylinder and give them a good cleaning.  The poor
thing really caught some abuse last year at the hands of another, but is
now recovering nicely...

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
