Date: Mon, 30 May 2005 14:55:22 -0700
From: Christophe Guilbert <cguilbert(-at-)picasso.ucsf.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] Type 2 is about Type 2's, right?

Come on guys, don't make a big deal out of nothing !!! I hate to see 
people arguing !!
Questionable stuff is  just a matter  of individuals . People has 
different tolerances rate. I personally hate to see American TV because 
it is way too violent. I surely would like to see more "adult " content 
on TV ,  more than most American could stand  !!! again its just a 
question of tolerances level.
I've been in the list since a few month now , its always has been a  
great pleasure to read you guys including all kind of VW stories 
related, having some VW jokes sometimes (even questionable) just make 
this list very .... alive ! ;-) . Not everyone one could be pleased at 
the same time. Don't get me wrong , I did say that type2 list should be 
the sanctuary of this kind of jokes but those appear very very rarely, 
so I don't think we should wave the red flag each time somebody 
disapprove something because its out of his boundary tolerance.

Anyway , I also try to make some joke in this list, some people did not 
share my sens of humors , they wrote me a personal email without 
bringing up the all thing to the list, I think that was the way to go !!!

When I don't like a TV show , I just `switch off my TV.

Ok so much for nothing !!!

Have a great memorial day !! I need to prepare my van for Yellow stone

Chris

Vanagon 83


DrBen VW wrote:

> Hi Volks:
>
> I'm not prude but I'm with George here.  Every so often, usually 
> during a holiday where some part of the country has bad weather Type 2 
> posts go south.  I read this for Bus stuff.  I read other lists for 
> political stuff.  Since beginning ministerial training, I'd prefer to 
> skip "Adult" content in my email lists..... And yes there is Type2 
> Talk to which I do subscribe.  Let's use it more and move the 
> questionable stuff over there.
>
> George is the Admin.  Let him do his job!
>
> BEN
