Date: Tue, 31 May 2005 11:11:48 -0500
From: okartguy <okartguy(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: New Westy and trip report (long)

We're home! I picked up my "new" '79 Westy in Waunakee, WI on Friday
afternoon (thanks to my little bro for the ride up from St. Louis),
and put over a thousand miles on it by the time we arrived back home
in Oklahoma City last night. This marks the first time I've purchased
a vehicle over such long distance, and also the first time my wife and
I have taken any sort of long road trip with our three-month-old
daughter. We flew from Oklahoma CIty to St. Louis, and stayed with
family for a few days so that it was a dual-purpose trip. The prospect
of driving back so far in an unproven vehicle was daunting, to say the
least.

I solicited advice from the list a couple of weeks ago, once we got
our travel schedule worked out. Thanks to all of you who had helpful
suggestions on what to pack and how to travel with an infant. Luckily,
the bus was in excellent condition as described by the PO (I'm now the
third owner), and I had to do no work to it save for repositioning the
muffler (it was vibrating against a bumper support), and putting on a
new set of wipers. There are some cosmetic/utilitarian issues to be
addresse later, but overall the bus seems to be in top-notch
condition.

As far as specifics go, the bus is originally from Texas, has no rust
and as of this writing is showing 78k original miles. The original
interior is nearly immaculate, and everything is in working order
(this is a non-propane model). It's got newish KYBs, which I found to
be a bit harsh over highway expansion joints, and original-style
Bridgestone 6-ply radials. The 2.0 retains the original FI system and
runs extremely well, although there are a couple of pushrod tubes that
will need attention. On the highway, it ran great between 65-70 mph
(lots of level driving, not much wind) without "pushing" it. The motor
used less than a quart and a half of oil the whole trip, and at
fueling stops it was cool enough that I could rest my hand on the
metal fan housing. I averaged between 21 and 23 mpg at mostly highway
speeds.

So. I think I got a good one! I packed just about every tool I could
into a soft-side tooldbag, under the assumption that if I brought all
of them I wouldn't need them. So that seemed to work out right. We
were a bit worried about Katy's infant seat working in the back, since
we were using it without the base. The rear lap belt worked fine,
however, and we bought one of those "pool noodles" at Walgreens, which
I folded up beneath the front of the seat to keep it cinched at the
correct angle. Also, we lucked out and had fairly cool weather the
whole time, so mama and baby were comfortable riding in the back. The
only problem I had was getting a pretty fierce sunburn on my left arm
from hanging it out the window!

Other than having a good time driving it around (yeah, I drove it to
work this morning), the only thing I need to do pretty quick is
replace the "headliner," as someone removed all of the vinyl facing on
the plywood in the back, and covered the front portion with a padded
fabric headliner that has since fallen down. I'd like to replace it
all with unfinished birch plywood; can any of you tell me the
thickness I need? Also, any pointers in doing this would be much
appreciated.

I need to get back to work, so I'll end here. Thanks again for all the
help from the list; further bulletins as events warrant. Take care-

JJ
OKC
