From: "John Connolly, Aircooled.Net" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Tom Young" <tomyoung1(-at-)comcast.net>, "Eric Allred"
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "VB list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 31 May 2005 15:15:53 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] [VB] Re: [T2] Re: [VB] deck height

to minimize the incidence of detonation

1) Run cool
2) Tight deck (under .065"; I run .040")
3) minimize chamber surface area. The more surface area, the more area is
there to absorb heat from combustion, and more area to PRE-heat the A/F
mixture prior to ignition. This, and reduced quench, is why I feel Semi-hemi
is such a bad move. There are others that love the SH design though, I'm
just not one of them.
4) NO sharp areas in the chamber. Make sure the plugs don't protrude into
the chamber.


This combo may use less ignition advance then you are used to, you have to
play with it. Don't be surprised if you have a max of 26 degrees or so. On
my street engine, I run even less advance then this.

Just keep that deck tight, and seal the engine. Doghouse engines, and/or
dual carb engines in 67 down T-2s, OR in Convertibles, OR in Beetles with no
vents in the decklid MUST ADD AIR INTAKE AREA. I have little experience with
Ghias, but I'm sure the problem is exhibited there also.

A stock 1600DP in a 66 bus (for example) will overheat on the highway due to
the restrictive (inadequate) air entry that was not designed for the airflow
requirements of these engines. Eric Allred has done extensive testing on
this, when he says something about early busses and cooling I strongly
suggest you listen and heed his advice. The engine compartment vacuum at 4k
RPM with a doghouse engine is more then you'd believe (rev the engine to 4k,
and hold a rag near the engine vents, if you do not have a manometer), the
easiest solution is to remove the firewall tin and the problem is over. This
is how I keep my beetle engine cool too (in 64 sedan, no vents on decklid).

PS: Elephant Ears REDUCE air entry area and compound the problem, so be
careful and know what you are doing. I suggest testing with a glass of water
and a long tube routed into the engine bay for verification you are on the
right path.

John
Aircooled.Net Inc.
