Date: Mon, 22 Sep 2003 11:48:39 -0500
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Electronic ignition - opinions sought

Hey Jason (& List):

Sorry if this did get answered over the weekend, but I've not seen the
complete load of digests for the listed period of time.

You asked for opinions, etc. regarding Pertronix vs. Compufire vs.
Whatever.  I've been running Compufire in a couple of vehicles for about
10 years.  Lovely product, never had one die UNLESS I personally did
something bad to it.  People of the Kettering points ignition systems
will tell you running anything other than points will make you go
insane, you'll grow hair on your palms, you'll go blind, you'll suffer
from explosive diarrhea, etc.  Whatever...  Pack a set of points,
condenser, suitable wires to head off the day the Hall cell takes a
dump, or if you're real slick, just keep a whole fitted and kitted dizzy
with pre-timed clamp setting still attached - then just pop it in the
hole, reconnect your plug wires and drive on.

About 5-6 years ago, I decided to give the competition a whirl and
bought a Pertronix unit.  The first one ran about 15 seconds and died.
The second one lasted about 15 minutes and died.  I'm told this is a
commonplace occurrence - but if they make it past the "crib death"
arena, they will probably last you a good long time, and you'll join the
happy, giggling throngs of Pertronix-equipped VW owners.

Me?  I took the second failed unit back to the VW shop, and had them
give me a Compufire.  It's still in the car.  All these replacement
units have been installed on centrifugal/vacuum type dizzies on Type 4
motors, and have required a light sanding of the base of the rotor so
they don't foul the top of cap.  5 minutes with a piece of sandpaper,
take it down a bit at a time, you'll know when it's right.  That's my
story, and I'm sticking to it.

Much later on, I also added the late, lamented Universal Corp. CDI boxes
as formerly sold by Aircooled.net.  Nice.  Very Nice.  Too bad they have
gone bye-bye :-(

About a year ago, someone on The List posted a link to a cute little
points replacement / electronic box doohickey made by Porter
Electronics, up in Beautiful British Columbia - so I bought one of
those, but had nothing to put it on.  I just added to a $5 SVDA style
dizzy I picked up at the German Dreams show out in Bakersfield, and
popped it onto the wife's '69 Karmann Ghia over the weekend.  Seems to
run really well - but then, the Ghia was equipped with the traditional
10 year old cap, rotor, points'd out 009, and rock hard plug wires.  Did
anyone else on The List who bought one (paging Courtney Hook) have a
chance to run the thing yet?  Porter's website doesn't show any listings
for the kit, but is more devoted to their line of aftermarket
distributors.

Anyone?  Anyone?

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
