To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 22 Sep 2003 12:27:40 -0500
From: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: The VW Transporter, remedy for a healthy future?

Hey guys,

        So, I was watching TLC yesterday, and they had some episode on
population expansion, overcrowding, traffic jams, and stress.
They went on to talk about how different countries were looking at
alternate means of population, IE: on the moon, under water, on huge
floating islands, etc. And they went on to talk about how stress has
increased in today's fast paced world.. and how people are tired of
working in teh city, the commute, etc...

It got me thinking... If more people drove Volkswagen transporters, they
probably wouldn't be as stressed out. Simply speaking... you know the Bus
goes slow as hell, there's nothing you can do about it. So you just learn
to deal with it, and relax. You know you probably won't make that stop
light.. so you don't even try. So... you just relax and learn to accept
it.

I never thought I'd ever get into Volkswagens. My fiancee loves
Volkswagens, Kharman Ghias, Beetles.. etc. I told her I had a friend that
had a Bus for sale, so we drove up to take a look at it. When we pulled
up, we saw it in the garage of my friend's house with a car cover partly
covering the front with the headlights exposed and she was like... "It's
SOOO CUTE!!!"

So, needless to say, we brought it home. I never would have bought a car
that made me think.. "It's soo cute.". I'm a Pontiac guy, I like huge,
massive, enormous 6.6 liter V8 engines, and 7.25 liter 455 v8 motors. I
like eye-ball crushing horsepower. But I have to admit, this blue
transporter has really grown on me. Not because all the 13-14 year olds
think it's cool cause it looks like the "Scooby Do van" but because it's
relaxing.. it's weird, cheap to maintain, and it's different. I'm just
rambling now, and I know I should reserve this for Fridays.. but I'm
bored out of my mind and I have to go into a meeting now. and I started
thinking about how bomb it would be to just retire, have a boat in the
keys, and drive my VW Transporter everywhere..... and take turns living
in the transporter, or the boat. Never having to deal with the day to day
traffic, or stress.....



Oh well.. I guess that's what the hippie 60s were for.


Todd 
