Date: Mon, 22 Sep 2003 18:14:06 -0700
To: "KYLE LAFERRIERE" <klaferriere(-at-)msn.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] i don't know if this is a good idea

Don't use anything rubber unless danger of fire is your goal. Your least 
cost solution is replace all non-stock with stock, or go to the junk yards 
and remove stock stuff to put on yours, or get lucky and find the pipe you 
got. Also, you can try driving to all the FLAPS around and show them what 
you got, and see what they offer as a solution. Maybe one of them carries 
your brand.

Even Midas might agree to cut and reweld your pipe. They are strictly non 
stock cut and splice procedure anyway. They always cut away the factory 
flanges and weld the whole system into one piece. Most quicky muffler shops 
do this as well, so cut and splice is their forte. What I have seen of 
anyone who has worked this way for more than a year or two is it might take 
all of a half hour to do. I doubt they ever spend more than that for a 
muffler. Two cuts and two welds, BINGO. Just need a pipe the right size and 
bent to fit on their wizbang bending machine, which is the core of these 
generic muffler shops. Buy straight pipe, computer controlled bending 
machine puts out left intermediate pipe, Ford Galaxy 02 4.5L Turbo. Any of 
them that want to can fix your pipe for less than $50. That would be far 
better than wasting $20 on slap dash juris rigus mortis. And that will get 
you down the road while you scrape up the bucks to fix it right with a 
stock setup.

As to danger, what is dangerous to your wallet is wasting time/money on a 
strange assemblage of ill fitting pipes and clamps assembled out of panic 
by a novice. It is also very bad for that one cylinder to try to work 
against the restriction. Keep the miles very low until it is fixed or the 
motor might attack your wallet as well.

At 03:03 PM 09/22/2003, you wrote:

>It is definitely affecting my bus' performance and I don't like the way it 
>sounds. I don't have the cash for a new muffler and I don't know how to 
>weld. Someone suggested that I cut out the dent and buy a piece of pipe 
>slightly larger and use some quick weld and some clamps. Someone else 
>suggested I just replace it with a piece of radiator hose or some other 
>hose that can withstand the heat temporarily until I can afford to buy a 
>new muffler. Is this dangerous in any way? Any thoughts?
