Date: Wed, 02 Jul 2003 23:04:43 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <busbarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I love to tinker!!!

As many of you know, when the yellow westy "big bird" drives into camp, it
is usually followed by it's egg, the little Scamp trailer.

Pulling the Scamp with the '76 westy really works well (but a standard bus
would work better because they are lighter), we have over 20,000 miles
pulled so far.  This combo really works well for my daughter and I.

These little Scamps are so fun to play and tinker with.  They are great to
camp in and lend themselves well to personal "improvements".

I have always enjoyed camping off grid and in the primitive areas and the
westy with Scamp lends itself well to that type of camping.  But one thing
that I always look for at the end of a hot, sticky, dirty day is a nice
shower.  Many of the good campouts don't have showers and even some that do
I really don't like taking my daughter into the men's showers.

In the past I have used the solar showers which don't lend much for privacy.
I purchased a Zodi heater which I used inside a tent and that worked really
well, except the tent has to be put up and taken down and when it was too
hot or too cold, it isn't very enjoyable.

As of last night, I can now take a shower in my 13' Scamp without being
cramped and really enjoy the experience.  With a lot more engineering than I
thought it would take, I have pulled it off.  Even though it was close to 90
degrees last night, I fired up the AC, lit the water heater, filled the
water tank, put in a Jimmy Buffet CD and really enjoyed a great shower in
our little marshmallow!!!  We can now camp anywhere and be comfortable,
unless it is too hot and we can't find power for the AC.

I didn't have to remove the floor, but did cut a large hole in it, remove
the cross members under the floor and install a framework for the "trap
door" and shower pan.  We won't be able to travel with the shower pan
installed, it hangs down too far, but it is easy to remove.  The trap door
is very sturdy, I "X" braced it on the back with steel.  The floor really
feels much more solid now than when it was original.

I hung the shower curtains using 2 "S" hooks and 2 elastic cords.  I also
remove the table and lay it up against the back window which gives me a very
nice place to dress and lay my clothes.  When standing in the shower, I have
6 foot 5 inches of head room which is plenty for extending up the shower
head.  The shower curtains hang just a couple inches from the ceiling so
nothing gets wet outside the curtains, it all falls into the shower pan.
The curtains form a room which is 3 foot square, then angle in a bit to the
shower pan.  How many large RV's have a 3 foot square shower????

This is a list of what I've added to the Scamp for the shower:
1.  Suburban 6 gallon water heater
2.  High volume 12 volt water pump
3.  Hot and Cold sink faucet that was made for an RV tub so it has the
shower hose coming out the back, you just lift a small knob.
4.  Custom made shower pan, 24"x28"x6" deep with a 1" lip around the top to
hold it in the frame.
5.  Sub floor frame for shower pan and trap door.
6.  Trap door with a finger pull used on bass boats doors.
7.  Remove, replace, glue and cut carpet for nice fit.
8.  Chalk under the trailer, then paint all metal and rough wood edges.

While I was under the trailer, I also ran another cross member close to the
back, then installed a reciever hitch so I can pull my jet ski behind the
Scamp and westy.  I don't think we will pull the jet ski very far, but I
have pulled other busses which weigh more than the Scamp and jet ski do.
The reciever hitch will also work well for a bicycle rack as my daughter is
just getting started riding now.

Sorry for the long winded report, I'm just so excited to finally figure out
my shower problem.  Now that it's done, we can enjoy it for many, many
camping and bus trips.


Ramblings from an old Shop Teacher,
Rick Taylor
Smack Dab in the middle of the USA,
Berryton Kansas
Home of Busses by the Barn
http://www.buskatiers.com/archive.htm
