Date: Fri, 04 Jul 2003 06:11:37 -0600
From: g <gbonnet44(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Exhaust Leak/ Valve Proplem

I performed a full tune up on my 77 van before going on an 800 mile road
trip. This included adjusting the valves which I have done on other
vehicles many times myself but this time had a friend helping me and I
used a book from the library which I had not used before to guide us
through the procedure. I drove 400 miles and then camped out. When I
restarted my van two days later I noticed a loud "tapping" sound just
above idle speeds that went away at about 2000rpm. I thought it sounded
like loose valves but it was only in the low RPM's so I drove back home.
 
 
Fearing we had damaged something during the tune up I rechecked the
valves, which were loose on 2 & 4 because the book, when I rechecked it
had a misprint, that said turn the engine clockwise. So we adjusted #2
in the #4 position and vice-versa and #1 and # 3 in the correct spots.
Then I checked with another manual realized the book had a misprint and
adjusted them correctly. Then I double checked the timing and took it
for a drive. Still the clackety-clack sound. I let it sit over night and
checked all the valves again at .006 and another test drive. Same noise.
 
 
Not trusting my mechanic skills I took it to the local VW shop and had
him adjust the valves. When I went to pick it up he told me that there
is an exhaust leak and I should check all my gaskets and header bolts to
prevent damage that would be caused by cold air entering the engine.
 
Well now I know that I can do my valves ok how I can go about
pinpointing this exhaust leak? I don't have a hoist and some of the tin
is tough to get off. The bolts are tight to move and just tightening
them won't tell me if the gasket is blown. I do have a stethoscope and
most other tools. I just need guidance on how to use them.
 
Also the van seems to stall about 10 minutes after warming up usually
when I push in the clutch. I did the fuel filter with the tune up, cap,
rotor, plugs and wires. Still it stalls occasionally especially when I
am in rush hour traffic. About another 10 minutes of stalling or me
fluttering the gas pedal and it will clean right up and idle perfect.
Could this still have something to do with the exhaust leak? Could
points or condenser cause this? I did not do these at tune-up.
 
Thanks in advance
 
Glenn
 
'77 Van
'71 Super Beetle
