From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, barndoh54(-at-)cs.com, surfdoc99(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 21 Oct 2002 10:43:44 -0700
Subject: OCTO/ SCARY!

my trip to octo was also good except for a few freeway 
freakouts. i headed out saturday morning in the 56, and averaged about 55-60 
mph. got to pasadena about 2pm. not too bad a drive, only that i had to dodge a 
broken down u-haul, weave in between its 3 safety triangles in the road and 
avoid being hit by a semi truck all at the same time. a few of us went to dinner 
at this crazy tiki restaurant that was cavernous, full of fish tanks all over 
the place, ABBA playing on the PA system, and looked like the innards of an old 
ship! it was pretty cool. Greg Noble and I got to octo early and 
almost caused Rich Kimball, the parking "official", to have a nervous breakdown 
because we wanted to save a space for Roger. it all worked out, and a parking 
catastrophe was averted. the show was pretty good, although as usual i didn't 
really look at any busses, just parts. prices were generally crazy high, to the 
point where i mumbled to myself that the seller must have been freshly released 
from the psycho hospital, but there were some good deals to be had. i got 
another "custom" 56 (US brakelight decklid) wiring harness from Wiring Works 
(thanks again Bob!), bought a few small parts i needed, and after an overcast 
day, headed to a post-OCTO party. about 4pm and after eating some pizza, i 
realized i HAD to get out of LA, so i took off. while somewhere in the vast 
array of LA freeways, i saw a BIG TIRE/WHEEL come bouncing down the road, 
headed directly towards me! this wasn't off some small rice-burner car, this was 
off some kind of bid SUV type vehicle! (i know this because i saw the rim and 
could almost read the white lettering on the side of the tire!!!) now realize 
this is on a 5 lane (each direction) freeway and i'm in the slow lane doing 
60.  i really saw me and my bus being destroyed in my mind, and maybe 
that's why it was so scary. the car NEXT TO ME slams on its brakes (lotsa white 
smoke and screeching) and then gets pummeled by the tire, 
sending the tire back in the opposite direction! i swerved into 
the right breakdown lane to avoid any further possible tire attacks, and then 
just kept on going, quite a bit freaked out. i looked in the rearview and saw 
the battered car pulling off the road and a long line of stopping traffic 
starting to form behind the scene of the incident. what a freakout! i saw 
imminent doom heading my way, but luckily for me i wasn't involved. it still was 
extremely scary though. I made it home around 11:30. a quick 850 mile trip 
in 2 days in a "new" bus, ah what fun.....
