From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 21 Oct 2002 22:33:23 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: American roof rack  was  Re: [VB] Full-length rack for sale

In a message dated 10/21/2002 6:44:38 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
the-andyman518(-at-)charter.net writes:


> I have those spring loaded clamps for mine.  What do you mean by lack of
> strength?

Hi Andrew,
The pre-1970s German manufactured roof racks with the two fingered clamps 
have a thicker tubing wall thickness and thusly stronger tubing.  Addtionally 
your rack has has only tubing as a floor in the rack and these tubes only run 
side to side.  The racks we used have several tubes running front to rear 
creating little squares pattern and beefing up the floor of the rack.  The 
later German roof racks with the seal like flipper clamps are about midway in 
strength between your rack and the racks we use.

  I've been thinking of putting a piece of plywood on my rack, then > a tent 
> and sleeping up there.  Is the rack going to be able to hold everything?

It should be able to hold 300-400 Lbs., especially with the load spread out, 
but probably not a good idea to install plywood up there with the original 
clamps you have.  The air rushing between the roof of the bus and the plywood 
on the rack will lift the rack and if you are using the spring loaded clamps 
they will not hold the rack in place.  Then it will shift and pop the clamps 
loose and wham, flips the rack into the traffic behind you.  Very possibly 
causing $$$ damage, plus injuring, maiming, killing someone/s that was 
driving behind you.   Unless you always have a heavy enough load on the rack 
to hold it down (How heavy?  We do not know and would not want to try to find 
out with wind gusts added into the equation!!!), or fabricate a spoiler for 
the front of the rack to prevent air between it and the roof which would 
reduce drag, or fabricate extra clamps out of hardware store turn buckles to 
increase hold down strength.  We suggest the latter!
Eric&Barb
