Date: 25 Aug 2001 21:04:32 -0000
From: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Thomas Kortus" <tkortus(-at-)hotmail.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] truck drivers on my road trip :(



> well we servived. my wife and i made the trip from seattle to chicago last 
> week and made it. we took a small two lane hwy for most of the time, but 
> then we were forced to take a major freeway for the last third of our trip 
> and were met by more semi's than cars on the roads. going speeds of 85-90 
> mph! top speed for us was 50-55 in our '67 deluxe. we were honked 
> at-followed very closely and at one point practically rear ended by a 
> truck-the driver had to pull of to the shoulder to avoid hitting us and 
> ended up driving next to us - WHILE WE WERE GOING 60 MPH! so we got off the 
> busy highway and stuck to the country highway. i know we weren't going the 
> speed limit, but where is the love on the highway?!?!

Don't let one (or even two or three) bad apples paint the rest of the truckers with a bad rep.

Just about every trucker I've encountered has done his best to maintain a harmonious relationship.  This is in his best interest, as he is a 
professional who puts on 50K+ miles per year.  Road ragers don't last long in that profession.

Bus drivers have a better understanding of driving low power-to-weight ratio vehicles than the typical automobile driver.  This empathy can 
help us understand where the trucker is coming from, particularly where hills are involved.

Truck drivers rely on their momentum to carry them over hills at reasonable speeds.  If something gets in their way, such as a bus, they 
will not be happy campers as they lose their momentum and cannot accelerate to regain it.  They are now faced with a longer climb and 
will probably burn a few more dollars in fuel.  I keep an eye on the rear-view mirror and try to stay out of the way of trucks approaching 
from the rear.  

Here in Sunny California, trucks are restricted to the two rightmost lanes on multi-lane freeways.  If I'm in these lanes (as I usually am) 
and I see a couple of trucks approaching from the rear, one passing the other, I will move to the 3rd lane and let the trucks pass on my 
right (this is legal and normal in California, perhaps not in other states).  That way, neither loses his momentum and everyone is happy.

There are situations where you simply cannot get out of the way.  Professional drivers understand this and shouldn't get hot at you.  If 
they do, get the name of the trucking company and complain to them.  Most trucks carry a truck number and sometimes even an 800 
number on their trailers.  The big trucking outfits are very sensitive to this, since aggressive drivers cause accidents and lawsuits.  It's very 
unlikely that a trucker would hit you from the rear, as any accident of that sort is regarded as the fault of the following vehicle and the last 
thing a pro driver wants is to be charged with an at-fault accident.  Stay in your lane if you have to and let the trucks go around, but never 
drive on the shoulder.

George Lyle



George Lyle
