Date: Sun, 22 Jun 2008 15:40:32 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: admin(-at-)colinrogers.net, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] My bus is driving me up the wall

Hi Colin

Have you checked for spark at the plugs? When troubleshooting no-start 
conditions the rule is "Gas + Spark + compression". If you put gas down 
the carbs and it still won't fire, the next logical place to look is for 
spark. Look for spark at the coil, then at the end of the wire, then at 
the plug itself.

My guess is that you have an intermittent fault in the ignition circuit. 
  Not uncommon in a 36YO vehicle, but not hard to fix, either.  If the 
battery and starter are good then you still have a lot of other wiring 
in that circuit to check: the positive battery cable running to the 
starter, the ground strap from transmission to chassis, the battery 
ground strap running from the negative terminal to the chassis, and the 
wire running from the ignition switch to the coil, as well as the switch 
itself. There are excellent wiring diagrams online located in the 
library at type2.com.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca



admin(-at-)colinrogers.net wrote:
Hi everyone,
> 
First time poster, long time reader. I have a 1972 Type 2 Kombi. My bus is
really weird. I bought it a few months ago and it ran flawlessly. Two times,
while I was still in my parents town, the bus just died and would not start.
After a while, it just fired right back up and ran great again. I drove it
about 250 miles on the highway with no issues. After being in my town for a
week or so, the bus just wouldn't start again. Sometimes it wont even turn
over. It just clicks once. I first figured that it would be the battery 
or the
starter, but they both check out fine. When it does turn over it sounds 
great
except that it wont start. I changed the fuel filter, the plugs, wires, cap
and rotor. I can tell that the fuel pump does work because it is 
electric and
I can hear it working when I try to start it. Also, the fuel is making 
it past
the pump, I can see it clearly making it to the filter. I went ahead and 
tried
pouring some gas down the carbs and had no luck. After it wouldn't start 
for a
few weeks of little trying, I went out and it fired right up again and ran
perfect for a few hours of errands. At the last stop I came out to head back
home and it started but then died and hasn't started since then. Sorry 
if this
seems drawn out, I just want to give as much info as I have. At this 
point, I
am looking for any possible solutions. I look forward to hearing from you.

I believe it is a 1600 cc motor with dual webber carbs.
