Date: Sun, 22 Jun 2008 18:31:13 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: admin(-at-)colinrogers.net, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: 72' Kombi

Hi Colin,

It's probably something easy, if you have a helper available you 
shouldn't need much in the way of tools to sort this out.

Check the spark at the coil by pulling the coil wire out of the 
distributo and holding it 1/4" from the engine while someone cranks it 
over. You should be able to see a spark jump from the cable to the 
engine as it cranks over. If there's spark there, then check at the end 
of one of the spark plug wires... you may have to insert a screwdriver 
into the end of the wire to get past the insulator, but it's possible. 
If you don't have spark there, the problem is in the distributor. If you 
do, remove a plug and attach the wire to it and see if there is spark at 
the gap. You don't need any special tools for this, the spark should be 
pretty easy to see. If you don't have a helper, you could wire a remote 
push-button to the starter to turn the engine over for you.

Spark plugs are a pretty unusual place for an intermittent no-start 
though. The more common causes would be the points, cap, rotor or wires. 
If there is no spark I would check for the distributor jumping up out of 
the engine and not engaging the camshaft, or the ignition circuit as 
stated earlier. If the distributor has popped up out of place, you will 
need a timing light to get the timing set properly.

If you are getting spark and it still won't run, then the problem ISN'T 
the spark plugs. Check the ignition timing, verify that all the valves 
are moving when the engine spins over and confirm that the distributor 
is actually at TDC#1 when it's supposed to be. You do that by watching 
the #3 valves... at the exact instant when the #3 intake valve closes 
fully and the exhaust starts to open; that's Top Dead Center on #1 
cylinder. Once you are sure the engine is at TDC1 you can check that the 
rotor inside the distributor is pointing at the plug wire that leads to 
#1 cylinder. (The one towards the front of the bus on right side when 
looking at the engine).

Keep systematically checking one thing at a time; the answer will come 
eventually.

admin(-at-)colinrogers.net wrote:
> Hi Greg,
>  
> Thank you for posting so quickly. I am really not good with motors and 
> the such. I have the general idea of how they are supposed to work but 
> thats about it. Can you tell me how to check the spark at those places 
> you mentioned? Do I need a certain tool? Could there be a loose 
> connection somewhere that might be just a wire or something? Sorry. I am 
> just very eager to get this thing back on the road for some camping.
>  
> Thanks in advance,
>  
> Colin


-- 
Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
1987 Wolfsburg Weekender Hardtop
www.busesofthecorn.com
www.pottsfamily.ca
