Date: Mon, 23 Jun 2008 18:06:34 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Stranded in Nebraska Update

Also replace the oil cooler red button seals/gaskets.  Becareful of the
torque.  And BE SURE you have the oil cooler full mated to the housing
before you apply those very few foot pounds of torque.  (can anyone share a
torque listing of what Jules should know??)

Regarding the head gaskets, Richard Atwell says this:

 Head Gaskets:

This topic probably stirs up more argument that any other wrt heads. In the
1990's VW released a tech bulletin that among other things recommended the
removal of the shim gasket between the head and the cylinder. This gasket is
actually made from several thinner gaskets pressed together and when one
layer shrinks and burns through a gap forms that allows the combustion gases
to escape resulting in eventual head failure.
<http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Heads/HeadGasket.jpg>

The concensus on this issue, after much photographic evidence depicting
burns in this area, is to remove the head gasket and lap the head to the
cylinder and rely upon a carbon build-up to help maintain the seal. Now
there is no gasket to fail because there is one less sealing surface but it
means you have to get the contact surface absolutely flat because there is
no gasket to crush and make up for inconsistencies. It also means that you
need to recalulate your compression ratio but that is a necessary part of an
engine rebuild anyway.

The gasket (~0.80mm before crush) in not the same thickness as the 1.6mm
spacer VW recommends using which begs the question: has VW also recommended
lowering the compression ratio or were there further instructions? Well,
first consider there is was also a paper gasket at the base of the cylinder
and if that measured 0.80mm also then there should be no change to the CR
but Wilson says the paper gasket should be 0.20mm thick and so is the metal
base gasket included with the rebuild kits so it appears VW did recommend a
slight reduction to the compression because overall the deck height has
increased by 0.6mm (approximately 7.3:1 to 7.0:1).
<http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Heads/AMCStep.jpg> AMC has solved the
problem of the head gasket by eliminating it as well. They have machined a
step into the head in place of the original gasket and this serves to
provide a corner and mating surface that obstructs any escaping gases after
sufficient carbon buildup which is promoted by the gasket sealer used. The
step is about 0.80mm thick (incorrectly shown as 1mm in photo) which is
about the same as the gasket that was removed. The head combustion cc is
about 50cc on a 2.0L AMC head below the step. Above it's about 57cc.

To summarize, if you elect to remove the gasket you've got some machining to
do to your head and some math in order to add the step. If you have an AMC
head you don't need the head gasket (AMC even gives you a warning notice
with your head). Electing to use the gasket is an acceptable practice on a
VW head if you cannot guarantee the seal but only if there is no step cut in
place.

See the tech bulletin listed in the references for details.


-- 
Barry Burneskis sends
Northern VA (Fairfax)   1978 Westy
