From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 23 Jun 2008 23:38:01 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: Stranded in Nebraska Update

The thermostat system as a whole is a crucial part of the cooling system.

Just to recap for those not familiar with the type 1 cooling system:

The flaps direct airflow to the tops of each individual cylinder using the
Venturi Effect. Each vane and flap narrows the opening of the shroud to the
head, splits the air and blasts and directs it onto the tops of each
individual cylinder. So they serve two purposes, closed they heat up the
cylinder quickly to increase combustion efficiency and open greatly improve
cooling efficiency.

The bottom pieces have the same design principle and are indeed a piece of
the cooling system. They catch, speed up and hustle the hot air away from
the cylinder heads. If missing, the hot air tends linger, which isn't good.

Type 3 "cool tin" speeds up the hot air evacuation even more, catching hot
air from both sides of the head and directs it down vertically.

Once again, if they weren't needed, they wouldn't have put them in!

The only bad thing about a missing thermostat, flaps and rod: you have to
pull the motor to install them. Not fun if your motor runs fine, so it is
routinely avoided.

Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westfalia


-----Original Message-----
From: jules [mailto:jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com] 
Sent: Monday, June 23, 2008 4:38 PM
To: Karl von Salzen
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Re: Stranded in Nebraska Update

> I think a lot of people thought you meant #9 here:
> http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Microfiche/t201000.gif

Karl,

Yes I think thats what everyone thought, but I have both of those.
What you describe, the little pice that goes between then two
cylinders on the head and has a slot cut in it - well I never knew
this was for a thermostat because (blushing) I don't have thermostats.

Yes I know, I know. And now I really know. Thermostats and flaps are
important. I could blame the PO but I've owned this bus long enough to
take responsibility for my own stupidity.

Now since I know those are for the thermostat and since a few folks
have mentioned that they aren't part of the air deflection/cooling
system I will stop losing sleep over one missing.

To comment on the head gasket debate, I plan on using the paper gasket
between the jugs and case (with permatex 3H as a sealant)  as
illustrated on page 133 of Wilson's "How to rebuild your VW air-cooled
engine".

I also plan on lapping the jugs to the cylinder heads and purchased
lapping compound here at the FLAPS.

There never were shims on this engine, and I'm not going to change
that at the moment although a full overhaul, including recalculation
of the CR, when I finally get home is long past due.

To comment on the other items, I'm not planning on replacing the oil
cooler seals or any other seal I haven't had to remove to this point.

thanks
jules
'71 1600 dp (you know the deal by now)
Valentine NE, from NY via US20/US14/WI89/IA9/NE12/US20
