Date: Wed, 25 Jun 2008 15:40:55 -0700
From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Sound Deadening and Insulation

Here we go.
First, I have a 64DD camper.( I know I should be on the VB list, but its 
been a bit quiet as of late)
I put a bunch of this stuff into my bus on top of a ton of Dynamat Extreme. 
BTW, I found the manufacturer and purchased a 50' roll for a very reasonable 
price through my company. And on top of the NASA insulation, I placed a 
layer of bitumen roofing 1/8" thick. I drove the bus after each layer and 
found only a small dent in the noise level.  The floors, walls and roof are 
covered in 2 layers each of the Dynamat and NASA insulation. The floor has 
the addition of the roofing material. All said and done I must have about 
200 pounds of damping, padding and insulation in my bus just to try and 
quiet the poor thing down.

Current incarnation is a 1/2" layer of rebonded memory foam carpet padding 
on my front door panels, kick panels and the panel behind my non-walk thru 
front seats. This provided a 5dbC drop in noise on the freeway.

My conclusion is that, at least in my bus, a lot of the noise is a result of 
interior resonance off all the hard surfaces.

I'm sure I still don't have the quietest bus, but it sure is not the 
noisiest. The worst of the noise is the exhaust drone. I have a stock pea 
shooter exhaust on a 1776 upright engine. Extractor with a quiet pak muffler 
makes nary a difference. If someone knows of a muffler that does not drone 
at freeway speeds, let me know.

Chris


Jason said:

I found this stuff on JC Whitney and thought I would ask if anyone has used
 it. User review seem to give it pretty high marks!

 I was thinking about using it for all of my floor boards in the front,
 middle and back of the bus. I figure that the "insulation" factor might 
work
 to keep it a little warmer in the winter as well as cooler in the summer.

 http://www.jcwhitney.com/HEAT-SOUND-INSULATION/GP_2010475_N_111+10201+600014099_10101.jcw Anyone familiar with it? Seems reasonably prices as well, I could do my whole bus with 2 rolls of the 4x6! Only $60!!! -- -- -thesykboy '75 2.0L VW Riviera Penthouse - Zoey the Orange Hornet Remember that the next time your little hut seems to be burning to the ground. It just may be a smoke signal that summons the help you need. www.thesykboy.com
