From: mybug(-at-)webtv.net (Shawn Reed)
Date: Wed, 22 Oct 2003 19:39:33 -0600 (MDT)
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bad day turns good

Sorry real long, but worth reading.

Hay all, I need to tell you about my bad day. I got up, and left for
work I stopped for something to drink. I came out and my bus wouldn't
start. I spent 20 minutes trying to get it started, finally I was late
for work so I left it there and walked home, got my motorcycle made it
to work. Told boss I need to leave earlier then I said (had dentist
appointment) So I'm at work and this guy comes up to me and "asks if I
was Shawn" I said yes, he said my wife is carol and she said you might
be interested in our bus, I said yes. I asked how much, he said just
come get it, I could not believe what I just heard, I said what? he said
that I could have it, just come get it. I got weak in the knee's. I said
I would be there tonite. then he left. after he left I left to go fix my
bus on the way there I stopped to talk to a friend for a minute, when I
got done my motorcycle wouldn't start, luckily next door was a
motorcycle shop, he put a charger on it and got it going. I get to my
bus still won't start, i run home grab a tool bag, get back to my bus
get it going, drive it home, walk back get  my motorcycle, go to
dentist, get a root canal done, come home, go look at bus. She's a 1978
Westy, little rust in normal spots, interior nice, he refinished the
cabinets, and added oak doors very nice. I talked to them they said
there getting to old to use it any more and wanted it to go to a good
home. Carol said she knew I would take care of it so they decided
instead of selling it to some one they didn't know that they wanted it
to go some where it would be taken care of.
He said it hasn't been driven in like a year, the battery was bad, I
took the battery home to charged it. They signed the title over to me
and we left. 
     So I went back this morning put the battery back in, still didn't
work. So i went to my fiends and got a new battery, got back put it in
still wouldn't start, looked around in engine bay noticed the vacuum
lines were a mess used my bus to see where they all went tried it again
and vroom she was alive. got home changed oil, filled her up with gas
and she runs smooth. I keep looking out the window so I know it wasn't
all a dream. It has all the original manuals, the owners manual, the
ones for the camper part, the original radio in the dash and the manual
for it, the one for the fridge, and stove. It has the working clock, and
a BA-6 (not sure if it works yet). I still can't believe it.

Thanks,
Shawn Reed
Poc. ID
