Date: Thu, 23 Oct 2003 07:59:39 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: "TYPE2. COM (E-mail)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] 78 starter

The original poster wrote:

> So on my recent trip to the East Coast I had starter issues.  Once my
> bus got hot and I turned it off it wouldn't start unless I tapped on
> the solenoid. So I would crawl around underneath with a small hammer
> and tap tap tap - then it would start right up.

Your problem is a classic one for older Volkswagen buses.  The problem
probably does not lie in the solenoid but rather in the wiring from the
battery to the ignition switch to the starter.  Bosch makes a relay kit
that will cure the voltage loss caused by this circuitous wiring path.
The kit part number is WR-1.  If you buy and install this kit you will
solve the problem 90% of the time.

Read on if you do decide to pull the starter.

On Wed, 22 Oct 2003, TR Gesell wrote:

> Unhook the battery FIRST.

Always good advice!

> Then unhook all the wires (maybe label them).

As I remove the bundle of wires from the stud on the back of the
solenoid I find it very useful to tie them together with a twist tie.
Depending on year there may be anywhere from three to seven wires on that
terminal and losing any of them will cause at least electrical oddities if
not disasters.  Count them and tie them together.

> If I recall the solenoid has flathead screws that are hard to get off,
> but it can be done.

These screws can be vey difficult.  I tend to start with an impact driver
despite their apparent small size.  If you strip them you will regret it.

> The only trick to re-instaling the starter is to
> get someone to hold the long bolt (so it doesn't spin) on the starter
> end while you tighten the nut in the engine compartment. Or hold it
> place with something really sticky.

This bolt should have a D-shaped head that engages the starter casting.
If you do no have one then you need to obtain one as I cannot imagine
getting the starter installed with a hex-headed bolt there.  Insert the
bolt then come around to the top.  Use a small flat-bladed screwdriver to
prevent the bolt from being pushed back into the hole while you start the
nut with your other hand.  Once the nut is started the D-shaped head will
prevent the bolt from turning while you tighten it.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
