Date: Thu, 23 Oct 2003 09:32:33 -0700
To: "Kathy and Paul" <pa.ka(-at-)verizon.net>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Holding the long starter bolt

At 07:57 AM 10/23/2003, you wrote:

>Hi All,
>     While speaking about starter replacement Rick G.
>said.................
>The only trick to re-instaling the starter is to get someone to hold
>the long bolt (so it doesn't spin) on the starter end while you
>tighten the
>nut in the engine compartment.

The upper starter bolt has a semi round head with a single flat that bears 
against the starter housing. If your upper starter bolt has a standard hex 
head, it's not the correct bolt. The correct bolt can't turn when installed 
properly. The issue is getting the nut started without the bolt pushing 
back out. I resolve this by always removing the throttle body. If you 
don't, there is serious risk of breaking off the vacuum port for the 
advance hose. Cleaning and servicing the throttle body more often than 
never is a good idea anyway. With the throttle body off and the lower 
starter nut snug and the upper bolt in place, then you can use a long small 
blade screwdriver or scribe to hold a thread while you start the nut. The 
bolt will not turn if the special head is oriented properly.

You will find when offering the starter that all goes best if you have the 
upper bolt sitting half way into it's hole so you can see the end of the 
bolt and start it into the bell housing while pushing forward with the 
lower stud oriented. Push the starter into place along with the upper bolt, 
then push the bolt on through while feeling for sure it's head is properly 
oriented with the flat toward the starter. Then hold the starter against 
the mating surface while putting on the lower nut just firm enough that the 
starter doesn't sag. That lower nut by the way is special as well. The 
correct nut uses a 15mm wrench, not 17. It provides the proper clearance 
for the wrench. Then go to the engine compartment and install and tighten 
the upper nut, then come back and cinch up the lower nut.

Very important!! Before you are finished underneath, take great care to 
verify all the wires are accounted for. It is very easy to miss one, so 
specifically take the effort to confirm. As an aid to this work I always 
remove the big heater duct. It takes just a moment and gives a whole lot 
more room to work and see an errant terminal that would otherwise be out of 
sight.
