From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 22 Nov 2004 22:14:33 -0700
Subject: Check those fuel hoses & a Question.

Spent the day under my 80 Westy today refreshing the low pressure fuel hoses
before the fuel pump and the filter. I first syphoned the tank as dry as I
could get it using a cool pump I picked up today. It has a rubber squeeze bulb
like I've seen on outboard motor gas tanks in boats. Works great, No gas in
mouth, no fumes in lungs. After removing the belly pan, I inspected the set up
and found factory crimp on bands on all hose ends except at the filter! Kind
of scary that the P.O. was suposedly driving all over Northern Arizona with 23
year old hoses last year! When I tried to remove the hose from the tank, of
course it wouldn't budge. Tried to twist the hose free of the tube it was on
and the hose disintigrated. Tried to pull the filter and hose off the fuel
pump and this hose snapped off with almost no effort. Seems to me a good pot
hole jolt could have caused either of these hoses to part. Not a pretty image.
I wouldn't wish that on anyone. The moral of the story is if you have just
aquired a new (to you) bus, if you spend money on nothing else, spend some on
new fuel hoses.

I also replaced the little hose from the filter to the fuel pump for the gas
heater. Had to go to a bike shop to find small enough hose. They sold me some
3/16 tygon fuel hose (-at-) $2.99 a foot, & I thought good fuel inj. hose was
expensive. The lady at the counter advised me to heat the hose end in hot
water or I'd never get it on, then she said no clamps needed! After installing
the hose in this manner and allowing it to cool. the hose seemed immovable on
the barbless pipe. Impressed, I still put clamps on anyway.

Next week I plan on replacing the hose on the high pressure side of the gas
heater pump. Does anyone know what size it is and how long it is? Does this
have to be re-enforced F.I. hose like used on the engine fuel ring? WHat kind
of pressure does this pump produce. This is a factory installed heater
booster.

Thanks for listening and CHECK YOUR HOSES!
Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
