From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Wed, 12 Jun 2002 17:08:58 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] my tranny leaks no more... but...

Diana,
I think there were supposed to be four bearings in each box, and since you have
had metal crunching around in there, you probably need to replace them all. You
can do it yourself, but the bearings aren't cheap. For less money you could
probably buy a pair of reduction boxes with gears and bearings and more from
someone who went the lowered bus route. Then rebuild yours properly as time and
funds permit.
To replace the bearings you must remove those "frost plugs" that your mechanic
couldn't. Weld a nut on to each and fashion a puller, it is the factory
authorized way. VW says throw the plugs away and install new ones, but if you
plan for it you can reuse them, not have to weld nuts on again. You need a few
pullers to remove gears and bearings, some autoparts stores will rent these to
you. I think those are the only special tools you really need. All the info is
in the Bentley manual, follow it carefully. If things aren't fitting together
the way the book says they should, don't force them, stop and figure out why.
Rebuild gently, use a homemade press or puller to exert force where possible,
not a hammer. You can make many kinds of pulling and pushing tools with bolts,
scrap steel, hacksaw or grinder. Look to Muir for encouragement and inspiration.
Good luck,
Joel and the '64 Sundial


 ----- Original Message -----
From: "Diana K." <burning.girl(-at-)telus.net>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Wednesday, June 12, 2002 10:59 AM
Subject: [VB] my tranny leaks no more... but...


> 2.  he was supposed to rebuild the reduction boxes, but he only changed ONE
> (upper) bearing on each side.  At least they did have broken cages but I
> suspect the rest are shot too.  I didn't realize at the time that there are
> 3 bearings in each box, I thought there were only two.  He said he couldn't
> get at the lower bearings because he couldn't get the frost plugs out.  How
> hard is that really?  I guess I need to pull the redux boxes back apart and
> fix them properly... looks like a lot of special tools are required
> according to the official manual...


