Date: Thu, 13 Jun 2002 22:48:54 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
Subject: new toy - afm!

thanks to john at aircooled.net, i have a new toy to play with... an
air/fuel meter.
i had ordered a brasol carb from john, and didn't like it (do the
brazilians make things outta coconuts?!?)(NOT john's fault, btw). so he
graciously let me exchange it for the afm. he has talked a few times on the
phone with me, and has been very helpful - another recommended List
vendor!!
it took 2 weks for me to get around to welding in the O2 sensor bung; i put
it top bumperside on a stock 1600 bus muffler- not ideal, but easier than
putting it in front due to clearance issues. fired it up and danged if the
thing wouldn't come off of full rich. i had a 120 main, 55 idle and 135z
emulsion in a german 30pict1 that rimco had rebushed. dropped the main down
to 117.5, and was able to get highway speed under load to run at the 2nd or
3rd light off full rich, which john says is around 11/1 mixture, and about
right.

BUT.

it idles pegged at full rich 90% of the time, and so i know i'm too rich
there. i suspect it is due to a vacuum leak, and i have the mixture screw
turned out too far to compensate.
now, i have tightened, adjusted, and hosed with starter fluid EVERY
surface/surface joint in the engine room, and i'm damned if i can find it,
but i KNOW i have a vacuum leak. how? well, the proof is in the lights on
the afm - they will randumbly zip over to FULL LEAN at idle, and then
back... sometimes continuously, sometimes just once (they are s'posed to
register lean only when shifting).  once or twice at highway speed, they
will do it again. and, today, my berg dipstick sender went off, indicating
overheating .

john suggests i spray starter fluid in the engine room >while watching the
lights< to see what area makes them change; that's a leak candidiate.

one more thing to monitor on the dash, one more variable... but a pretty
neat item! and they are pricey, but i had already charged the card so, what
the hey.

i saw a berg one today, but have no idea of their price relative to john's.

my hope is that i can also get a 'sniffer' test and correlate it to each
light on the sensor, and get some concrete numbers on what we need to 'jet'
our carbs with using modern gas.

stay tuned (awful pun).

Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen


