Date: Fri, 26 Sep 2003 11:25:35 -0700
To: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net, harmony(-at-)buszen.com, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: Re: [VB] was/ New welder-A done deal/now our heeps!

as mr. muir said:
"NO ONE - butcher, banker, guru, indian chief - has the dough to pay 
someone else to learn to work on your car" (sic).

mechanics tell me that  old vw owners - like me! - tend to grimace at 
estimates over $100 to fix anything, so why bother with em?
the best vw shop in austin charged $70/hr plus parts, so a 2-hr brake 
job quickly becomes a do-it-yourself job at that rate.
and as ronnie says, the crappy parts will bite you in the ass, so it 
just takes one or two cars coming back to make a shop shy of vws.
i met a man in scottsdale yesterday who owned 3 vw shops in phoenix 
in the 80s... besides claiming it was too frustrating trying to keep 
them from melting in the summer, he said the only way to make a 
profit on them now was the total-resto shop route.

and ronnie stated :  'we are a dieing breed.'

let me point you to another vw philosopher, gene berg (and if muir is 
a saint, berg is a jesuit father): he wrote an article about 'the 
death of an industry,' and it is more relevant today than ever; he 
complained that shoddy parts would drive people from the hobby and 
contribute to the vw's reputation as unreliable, high-failure beasts.

he was right, and tho some claim we are entering a new 'golden age' 
of repops, i have to say the quality is shit. can you say 'empi?'
let us not even MENTION aluminum cases, as i have been assured i have 
the ONLY one that was bad.
not only that, but we are paying far higher prices for stuff than the 
junk berg was complaining about.

perhaps that is why we see fewer 'help me fix this on my bus' posts 
on vintagebus, and more 'can you help me find some OG sauerbraten 
fart smell to put in my 63 deluxe's seat cushions?' only the 
hobbyists remain.


there are quality parts out there (check them before installation, 
too!), but the price has rendered busses to expensive hobby items for 
most, rather than easy-to-maintain, affordable transportation.
i am a stubborn bastard (see: aluminum cases), and will daily drive 
my bus until i can no longer find parts for it, but i know many who 
have left the field and gone toyota... or, in vanbondo's case, 
eurovan! hey, how would you KNOW it shimmied over 90 mph, jim ;)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
