Date: Fri, 26 Sep 2003 13:13:25 -0700
To: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] was/ New welder-A done deal/now our heeps!

At 09:31 AM 09/26/2003, you wrote:

>   I really don't think that "it's nobody want's to work on them anymore",
>it's just as the cost of living goes up, wages, insurance, gas, overhead
>increase, nobody wants to pay the mechanic an honest wage (to work on the
>air cooled). I get the "I only paid 500 for my bus, what do you mean an
>engine is going to cost 2 to 3 thousand dollars" or 700 to a 1000 for a
>COMPLETE brake overhaul, notice I said OVERHAUL.

That's a fact. Someone said, "Nobody wants to work on them any more." It's 
not nobody, because I do. I love working on them, but not if I have to 
subsidize the cost for a cheap owner. And not if it means the cheapest 
parts be used because they're cheap and will get them out the driveway. If 
I care more for the Bus than the owner, he's not my customer. Doesn't 
bother me one wit. Happy to suggest they will be better served else where. 
My reputation depends upon no compromise to good results always, regardless 
the actual and reasonable time/money to do that. Any time/money spent on 
poor results is wasted. It still costs the same after a comeback failure to 
fix it right the next time, or compromise again with double the cheap cost 
and repeat failure. Sooner or later, they either sell out or learn the 
economy and wisdom of putting in the time/money/skill to fix it right once 
and for all.

Hopefully, he will liquidate it to someone who wants it fixed right, and 
receive the benefits of cutting his long term vehicles expenses in half. 
Not cheap to do it that way, but way cheaper than financing something new 
every 3 or 5 or 7 years, and wearing it out with minimalist maintenance, 
oil changes and tune ups by rule of long extended thumb, skip all the 
incidentals on a true maintenance inspection, never flush the brake or 
tranny fluid, and end up with an uneccessary repair of a totally 
deteriorated system. Wear it out then throw it away. There a a lot of Buses 
out there that have become nothing but an assemblage of junk parts and 
juris rigus mortis in an attempt to save money, the only result being 
continuing reduction of actual value with all systems compromised by cheap 
parts and unskilled labor.
