Date: Fri, 26 Sep 2003 13:41:57 -0700
To: "Ryan O'Rear" <grrr8ful(-at-)msn.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] How do I set up my exhaust analyzer for CO%?

Use the instructions with your meter. You must calibrate the meter to 
ambient air before putting the sensor in the exhaust. Ambient air is 3 to 
4% CO, in fact, exactly where your meter reference mark for calibration is. 
Hook up the electrical clips, give the needle a moment to stabilize, then 
set it on the reference mark with the adjustment screw/knob. Be sure that 
the sensor is well away from exhaust fumes when you do this and is 
breathing clean air at ambient temperature. This calibrates the meter to 
the CO content of mean atmospheric gases.

When you place the sensor in the exhaust up stream of the cat, or in the 
tail pipe if you got no cat, it will drop to the correct lower CO content 
of a properly adjusted system if the system is function nominal. Set as 
lean as allows clean idle. If that is richer than high spec then you have 
weaknesses or faults somewhere. This is why compression balance is needed 
in the first place.

If I know I have a weak, near low spec cylinder, I won't waste any time 
trying to find another cause for a rich condition. I know before hand that 
I will likely have to set it over high spec or have troublesome idle. With 
oxy feedback, the poor combustion from the weak cylinder puts off unburned 
fuel and oxygen. Oxy tells computer too rich. Computer leans out. Result, 
three cylinders running a bit lean and one rich, up to the point that you 
exceed the range of system adjustment. Things go skitzoid. ECU panics and 
might do anything seeking good feedback that never comes.

Note these meters and sensors are delicate and must be treated like the 
instruments they are, like a microscope. Drop or bump around either the 
sensor or the meter and you can have instant non-function, more especially 
with the cheap plastic types. Danger as well in a bump fouling the delicate 
needle mechanism and looking fine while giving false readings. If that 
won't waste a lot of time before you figure out what is going on, I don't 
know what will. Handle them the same way you would dynamite, with 
conscience care every second, and they might last longer.  This is why I 
harp on not wasting time/money on cheap meters, VOM's and such, from the 
hardware store peg hook. Acting with confidence on bad data is so much 
worst that WAG, save your money till you can afford a superior item of 
reputable, certifiable, manufacture. Only acting on good data can point to 
good results.

At 12:41 PM 09/26/2003, you wrote:

>How do I initially set up the exhaust analyzer to read Co%. The directions on
>the back of the box says to center the needle,
>Should I adjust the needle so that it reads 0% before I place it in the
>exhaust?
