From: "Bulli Bennie" <bullibennie(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "Type 2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 27 Sep 2003 09:54:28 +0200
Subject: Re: [T2] Everyone has their accidents

Hi Robert,

Too bad you totalled your bus. I (37) have luckily only had minor accidents
and never a total and all were only  with other vehicles
than my buses. Most important thing is your health of course but it seems you
came out lucky. Thank God.

Really too bad for the bus and it must be a real loss to you as it would be
with mine. I see that you're looking to buy another
baywindow bus and that is IMHO the only real car. I hope to see you cruisin'
the road real soon again and wish you much luck
acquiring one and even better luck keeping it on the road.

Some life lessons are hard and this is one of 'em.

P.S. I love seeing how sturdy our bay busses are. Accident photo's show us
where the weak and strong spots of our beloved buses are.
I really hate to see/hear that a bus is totalled/damaged but love to see the
damage to the bus. Everyone can learn of that. Only for
that reason i am looking out for your accident pics. And other pics like that
too.

Thanks for listening to my morning mumble as i just got out of bed here
(Europe, Netherlands 09.30 AM)

Busgreetings,

Bulli Bennie Kuiper
Gorinchem, The Netherlands
secretary and webmaster of the National Baywindow Bus Club of the Netherlands
Vrienden Club T2 (Friends Club T2)


PAGES THAT I MANAGE:

Vrienden Club T2  (baywindow bus club)
http://www.vct2.nl

Personal website
http://www.bulli.tk/



----- Original Message -----
From: "Robert Meyer" <njmr0021(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Saturday, September 27, 2003 7:09 AM
Subject: [T2] Everyone has their accidents


| Well, I know that everyone has their accidents, and I've finally had mine.
Unfortunately, mine was nearly fatal, and totalled my
bus.  Ya see, I'm only 17, and I'm a new driver.  I was driving along, not
paying attention, and I look up,and there's a car waiting
to turn.  I didn't really have time to react, so I swerved......the wrong
way.....into oncoming traffic.  I slammed into a
landscaping truck and ricocheted into the woods.  How I walked away from it I
don't know, but anyone in the southern New Jersey area
that needs parts on the passenger side, let me know.  I have 3 seats, 4
windows, and some scrap metal that may possibly be able to
be salvaged.  I'll have pictures up here soon to show the final damage, and
for those that are interested in the parts.  I think I'm
going to eventually buy a new body without an engine and put the engine that I
have right now, if it's still usable.  So if anyone
either is interested in the parts, or knows of someone that is selling just a
body,
|  either e-mail me, or call me at (732)920-2636.  Thanks for anything anyone
can provide and God bless.
|
| -Rob
