From: JamHen5(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 27 Sep 2003 15:20:17 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: engine split results (The Weasel)

Hiya Everybody,

    Well the engine is split resulting in the following:
1. Heads are cracked and has one of the, if not THE WORST attempts at valve 
seat replacements I've ever seen.
2. cyl. #3&4 all scraped up
3. pistons in 3&4 all gouged. 1&2 burned.
It appears that the "rattling" noise was piston slap. The rod bearings are 
not that bad. Worn enough to need replacing, but not enough to make noise.
4. Has a "newer" cam & lifters inside and bearings only have what looks like 
about 2000 miles on 'em. EXCEPT for the left halve of No. 3 camshaft bearing. 
Which is worn to the copper on the whole face (!?). The cam is in good shape 
though.
5. The main bearings are in good shape (except No. 1, which is scratched up) 
the crank journals all look nice and mirror like. The main bearings are 
stamped "std."
6. The bottom oil scraper ring on all the pistons are froze and collapsed.

Seeing, how I don't have a couple thousand dollars to put into this engine.
It looks like it's going to be a "junkyard engine." I'll need to find 
"different " heads, cylinders, pistons. And get "new" gasket set, rod & cam bearings 
and rings.
Oh yeah...and new clutch disc & pres. plate.
 My diagnosis is the engine suffered from overheating and none existent oil 
changes.

There was no thermostat, the flap before the oil cooler was pressed down 
under the straps it "should" sit on top of. Cooling tin was just kind of "placed" 
in position.
Not actually screwed together. The' '79 engine had ' 78 heads & ' 78 heat 
exchangers.
No hot air tubing, mine you. So that it was blowing HOT air straight up into 
the oil cooler (which at the same time was plugged on top with various oil, 
leaves,spiders,etc.
 I can't believe this engine ran as good as it did! I'm sorry to report that 
I have to just use mainly used parts. But I can't afford up to $650.00 just 
for 4 pistons & cylinders!
 And heads!! Well, we just won't mention that.

Oh Yeah....My question...

Why would anyone suspect the reason for the #3 camshaft left halve would be 
worn to the copper and the other side just fine? 

Sorry for the long post, but, it will probably be the last for a while.

"Good Condition "
               Bob Hoover


James
' 79 Sunroof bus (mothballed..awaiting rebuild)
' 83 RX-7
Lakewood,CA
