Date: Sat, 27 Sep 2003 20:59:34 -0000 (GMT)
From: farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 68 Baywindow Front End

Hi folks.  Ive been in absentia while my bus was getting a facelift.  So
now Ive got her back and Im evaluating the front end.

Please give me any input you may have on the following:

1.	The steering wheel has at least 12" of play, which is a bit more than I
usually like.  Im going to take the shielding off tomorrow and have a
look see.  Being a novice, it will take me a while to interpret what I am
looking at and what may need to be done.  Anybody else tackle this kind of
thing before?

2.	I lubricated the front end today.  But I did it with the wheels on the
ground, the book said they should be off of the ground.  It took about a
whole tube for the 4 zerks that it had.  It is supposed to have a fifth
zerk in the middle but none is there.  What do I do?  Is it possible that
there never was one there?  It felt like a hole when I probed it.  Would
it suffice to try to pump grease into it without a zerk?

3.	Interior ~ Ordered some panels from West Coast Metric, they only come
in solid colors, my bus has two-toned grey ones.  Is there a supplier of
good quality pieces (read: more stock-like) other than them?

4.	*R*O*A*D*~*N*O*I*S*E* !!!  Right now I have all three of the door
panels out and some ratty rubber mats on the floor.  I want to quiet
things down by about 2000 decibels.  What do you suggest?  I want to put
some kind of sound dampening insulation in the doors before I seal them
back up with panels.  Where can I acquire it?  Oh yeah, almost forgot, I
need something to cover the gas tank.  Is there a mat made for that?

I love this bus, my kids who are no longer stuffed into the back of a
economy truck, REALLY LOVE THIS BUS.  I want to make it my primary
vehicle, but it has a little way to go yet.  Thank you for your insight,
ideas, insults, and inspirations.

Jennifer
1968 Transporter that is sporting a new coat of Titan Red with bright
white trim.
