Date: Wed, 6 Apr 2005 22:30:06 -0400
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Karl von Salzen Day - a good day for my bus

Hi everyone!

I got my bus running today on Karlsday!! 

A few weeks ago Colin (AMSkeptic on the Samba) came out and spent an
afternoon trying to help me figure out why my bus wouldn't run.  We
went over all the good stuff - checked valves, did timing, points,
etc. but we could only get the engine half-running. That is only the
cylinders on the left side of my 1600DP were firing. This was
completely evident by the fact that the engine did run but the right
side heat riser tube and exhaust were cold.

We checked the spark by holding the plug wires near a ground a
verifying something was happening. We eventually ran out of daylight
so I was again left on my own with something very close to a running
bus. We brainstormed things before Colin left and he suggested a
possible air leak somewhere on the right side that could be effecting
air/fuel mix and therefore combustion.

I spent a while checking for that, couldn't find anything out of the
ordinary. I also checked the compression on all four and found them to
be all slightly over 90 (cold test).

So I got back to thinking over the following week or two while spring
started happening here in the North East and eventually decided that I
would scrap the coil I had (aftermarket unlabeled) for the stock Bosch
Blue coil. My order arrived today from bus depot. I got the new coil
installed, turned it over and got nothing, just cranking.

Decided to check spark again, pulled a wire, got a spark, pulled
another, got spark. This time I decided to start pulling plugs and
checking the spark there. Pulled the first plug, nothing, no spark.
Pulled a second, got a very weak spark.

Right about now I started digging around for the spark pugs I had
removed a few months ago. Plugged one in, checked the spark, very
good. Checked another, also very good.

I installed the old plugs, and she started up immediately! Purring!

Well I'll be. Bad spark plugs? I've never heard of such a thing. They
were Bosch W8AC's from Brazil I believe, which I bought from a
reputable on-line supplier.

I suppose they could have been fouled by my repeated attempts to get
the car running, but they actually looked cleaner than the "old" set
of plugs I had which worked.

So, a happy Karlsday to all, and may your luck today be as good as mine! 



peace
jules
'71 westy, maiden voyage is tomorrow!!!
