Date: Thu, 7 Apr 2005 09:31:55 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com, type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] starters

<Like to have a nice Bosch from one of our suppliers but had to
go to the nearest parts store - Autozone.  $39.99,
lifetime warranty (yeah, right).  >

That kind of story is WHY I like to keep my OEM part and get it repaired in one of the local starter/alternator shops OR buy from one of the VW list suppliers. 

TOO many times I have bought parts from one of the super market FLAPS (Auto Zone, Advance Auto, etc) only to find that the original part was different than the replacement part. Once it happened and it was too late to get the original part back... 

MANY of these Mom and Pop shops can repair your starter or alternator (rebuild it) for the same price as the lifetime warranty / super market FLAPS. The quality for me has been better than FLAPS too. I like to rebuild my own but have relied on the Mom and Pops several times when I could not. 

Check around. I like in a town of 25K people and we have 3 of the Mom and Pop repair shops. 

Story: When I lived in Chattanooga, there was a GREAT shop in Red Bank on Dayton Blvd. He totally rewired my '66 Moostang's charging circuit, updated the voltage regulator and repaired the alternator for cheap (diodes). Thinking less than $50 in 1987. Don't know if he is still there but he was across the street from the McDonald's near the Krogers between Auto Zone and the intersection of Signal Mountain Blvd. Don't remember his name or the shop's name. I typically look for a clean orderly shop and his was NOT! But his work was good. I was 16 year old and I remember him just reaching into the middle of a pile of parts to get me an alternator part for Dad. I thought no way! This guy's stuff is junk, he's selling junk. Told Dad about it and he told me that despite the appearance of his shop, his work was golden and he came highly recommended from several sources. 

Just my experience. 

Chris
