Date: Fri, 22 Mar 2002 10:02:42 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Torry <torry(-at-)mweb.co.id>
Subject: Re: [T2] CHT  installation

Torry,

If your oil temperatures are are 165-170 fahrenheit, then your oil
temperatures are *too low*!  You do not need more coooling, you need
*less*! The ideal oil temperature for an air-cooled VW engine is about
210-220 degrees fahrenheit.  Is your thermostat installed and connected?

On gauges:

I run an oil temperature gauge, an oil pressure gauge, and a cylinder head
temp gauge.  It is very interesting to watch the variations and
similarities between them, but they all report the same information
(eventually).  The cylinder head temperatur gauge is the fastest, the only
one that will go up and down significantly at a traffic light.  Oil
pressure rises and falls more slowly, with oil pressure leading oil
temperature, tho I think this is more a factor of different location than
different pressure/temperature.  In traffic, I agree that the cylinder
head temp gauge may be the most useful to you, but if you have an oil temp
gauge, it is not vital, just nice.

There are two ways to measure cylinder head temperature.  The usual
commercial gauges use a ring sender that goes under a spark plug as a
replacement for the sealing washer.  I have not used one of these, but
installation of the sparkplug/sender combo is reputed to be difficult
because of the recessed location of the plugs on a VW engine.

The second way to measure is to use a #2 temp sensor from a fuel injection
system.  This is a thermistor, a resistor whose resistance varies with
temperature.  This sensor replaces one of the screws that hold the tin to
the cylinder head.  The hole for it is an odd size/thread combination
(M10x1.0), but any machine shop ought to have the proper drill and tap to
enlarge and thread the hole for it.  After you install the sensor, you
will need to get an ohmmeter, calibrate it to show the temperature, and
connect it to the sensor.  The resistance of the sensor should be in the
10K ohm range at room temperature dropping to ~100 ohms at 4-500 degrees.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


