From: "T. Neal" <boxorayn(-at-)gorge.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Jul 2002 08:21:47 -0500
Subject: Uphill Pinging & Loss of Power

Hello All,
Haven't posted on behalf of my own bus recently, but I knew it was only a
matter of time.  Anyway, yesterday while doing some short-range driving in
90+ outside temps, I noticed a substantial amount of pinging while climbing
a moderate hill in 3rd gear.  It subsided as the road leveled out.  (This
had happened a month or so before under similar conditions, and I have been
listening for it ever since -- in the past I have also noticed slight
pinging while accelerating in 4th gear on the freeway.)  An hour or so later
while driving around town -- it was now hotter outside and the town I live
in has many severe hills -- I noticed even worse pinging on a steep climb in
2nd gear, and now I could feel a definite loss of power.  When I usually go
up this hill (and usually on cooler days), it has no trouble making the
climb in 2nd with no pinging; now, the pedal was to the floor as my
acceleration decreased and she was really clacking.  I live at the top of
said hill, so when I got there I opened the engine hatch for a look.  The
hatch and back bumper were really hot (hopefully I can attribute that to the
heat of the day), but the dipstick was hot enough to be almost untouchable.
In general the engine just seemed hotter than usual -- I didn't have to
touch it.  I was able to check the oil level, however, and it seemed fine.
I let her sit for a couple hours to cool, then had to go downtown again
after the sun had also cooled a bit -- on my way back, the pinging and loss
of power "seemed" to have subsided substantially, but maybe I was just
hoping too much.  The engine is fuel injected.

Can anyone tell me the likely cause of what I am experiencing here (pinging
under load/power loss/overheating), and what I need to do about it?  I did
some Muir/Bentley/Type2 Archive reading about ignition timing, and it seems
to me that maybe my engine's timing might be off.  Any ideas/opinions?

As always, thank you for your opinions and knowledge.

Travis
79 Riviera Campwagen
Columbia Gorge, Oregon


