From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 10 Jul 2002 12:36:49 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Westy conversion?

The top (metal roof section) of a camper is different than
> that of a regular hardtop. I was told that it is a direct decentant of
> the sunroof bus, but haven't confirmed that. If you wanted to get the
> pop-top to work on your 71 you will have to cut off the entire roof &
> weld or epoxy it on the 71. There just isn't enough clearance under
> the top for it to sit down correctly w/ the cot.

This is as I feared. The complete '71 transporter that I have has really
good original paint and a flawless roof, so I hate to risk that in an
experiment. Even if it isn't original, it's still a real nice bus. Other
than allowing headroom and ventilation when parked/camping, I really would
not be using that pop-top tent very much anyway. I may just leave the top
for last, size up the situation and condition of the tent, and take it for
possible future use if there is time.

> My suggestion is to just have a hardtop westy.

Well, that is certainly one option.. But what do you think of using the
stove in there without the pop-top up? Do you see any problems with this?
This is the combined stove/sink with lid, and it sits against the driver's
side, far to the interior of the door. Of course, there are always the
louvered windows, and I would not use it often.. maybe only in a downpour to
heat some soup. If I was really going to cook in there I would definitely
think having the pop-top up would help.
Also, if you are familiar with these interiors, is that a little
refrigerator on the lower right of that stove/sink combo?

I also have a possible option to buy a '69 hightop Sundial ($250, no engine,
trans, broken windshield) from my mechanic and put the camping gear in that,
which would give me my headroom and a permanent storage and sleeping area.
But now I would have FOUR VW buses, and I was trying to avoid that. (The
neighbors might think I'm crazy!)

I'll tell you what I will do. I will try to remember to take two yard
sticks, a string, and a level, and find out how high the '79 Westy top does
sit, versus the stock '71 transporter roof. If I do I will report back. At
least now I know that if I take the top, I should just take the Milwaukee
sawzall and cut all around the roof. We have a truck with a rack, but this
sounds heavy.
If anyone needs anything off the front end, like rotors or calipers, this is
your chance. If we have time we could take them off. No promises, but we'd
try. Jan B


