Date: Tue, 05 Jul 2005 19:08:50 -0400
From: yo-soy-quixote <iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: dual solex carbs (scat kit) got a few problems

I have the dual carb kit that ronnie (thanks ronnie!) has set up. For 
those who don't know; it consists of the 35mm dual solex carbs and scat 
manifolds and scat linkage.  The kit is very nice and the manifolds seem 
pretty nice.  Being a total dual carb newbie I have run into a few 
problems (I think all that have to do with the linkage & accel. cable)
 
1) The pivot mechanism that connects to the control arms has a metal 
piece that is meant to screw in to the lower left screw on the fan 
backing plate does not easily fit and when it is screwed in the control 
arm for #1 & #2 cyl rubs/hits it.  I am unsure why this piece is needed 
as the pivot mechanism is screwed into the engine case. 
Note: The control arm for #3 & #4 cyl almost rubs the fan shroud
2) Here is my real problem, my accelerator cable does not return very 
well and the pedal sticks to the floor.  I removed the cable and greased 
it up and replaced the gas pedal lever pivots to no avail.  This is a 
belly pan (dd) bus so I can't really determine whats going on with the 
tube but in the front it seems bent a bit?  I had a problem occasionally 
with it sticking before with the single 34pic but the lever action and 
stronger? spring seemed to overcome cable resistance better.  Should I 
ream out dirt/old grease in the tube with a clutch? cable and a drill?  
I can't drive the bus with it like this and it makes syncing the carbs 
seem a little futile.  The linkage returns fine when I move it on the 
pivot mechanism from the engine compartment and I can get things pretty 
well synced. (things move fine when accel. cable is not part of equation)
3) The scat instructions for the carbs were nice but for the linkage 
they seemed a bit lacking.  It is unclear where on the accel pump lever 
arms I am meant to attach the arms; I chose the upper hole as the lower 
one did not allow for motion of the nut past the manifold.  Also, the 
contol arm for #1 & #2 cyl. is screwed in all the way and it kind of 
feels like its not quite allowing the accel pump to fall completely 
back.  Again, the Scat instructions had one line on how to adjust the 
linkage and it really farked it up.

I have read faster-laster's review in the samba forums on these carbs so 
I will put up some pictures of my setup and provide a link to that 
thread as I get more info & experience. 

thanks
rob
