Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM, list vintage bus
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 8 Jul 2005 08:03:11 -0400
To: ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: WE DON'T NEED NO STEENKING BADGES!!!!!

Hi Volks,

You don't need a passport, either. Just is a reminder to the list  
that crossing the Canada/US border still does not require a passport.  
Border guards only require that US or Canadian citizens provide proof  
of citizenship such as a birth certificate and photo ID. A passport  
requirement is being proposed for vehicle crossings to take effect  
DECEMBER 31st, 2007; but until then a passport is not needed, unless  
your're from somewhere else. Heck, last time I crossed the border  
they didn't even ask for my paperwork... They must be getting used to  
me now.

So take the opportunity to cross the worlds longest undefended border  
with the least paperwork possible while you still can. Buses Of The  
Corn is coming up in just 4 weeks. (August 5-7th, 2005) There's more  
going on At BOTC 2005 than ever before:

- Burrito Breakfast
- Swap Meet
- Tie Dye Workshop
- Driving Challenge
- Lots of Kids activities.
- Pot Luck Dinner and Corn Roast
- Campfires on Friday and Saturday - Bring your instrument for the  
campfire Jam!

We're in the same great location as ever at Heber Down Conservation  
Area just north of Whitby Ontario Canada; about half an hour's drive  
east of Toronto. By popular request this year we're bringing in  
additional "industrial grade comfort stations". Please remember to  
bring your own drinking water and bring along some firewood if  
possible, and some quarters to operate the showers. Electrical  
hookups are extremely limited at BOTC and will be allocated on the  
basis of medical necessity. It's only two nights, so come on out to  
BOTC and try roughing it a bit for a change in a campground without a  
guard at the gate and lines painted on the ground.

If you want more information please email me or visit the website at
http://www.busesofthecorn.com

Official Event T-shirt information will be coming soon... There will  
also be inexpensive plain white T's for sale at the tie dye event.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
