From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 9 Jul 2005 11:07:42 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Changing from swing axles to newer CV joint axles

Hi Dave,
Go to type2.com , left click on "vintagebus" on the left side of the  screen. 
 The next screen that comes up, left click on "search".  Again  another 
screen will come up, and you want to enter something like "IRS  conversion".  Loads 
of info in those archives!
 
  Personally we do not feel the pre-1968 bus needs IRS.  It is  not like it 
is a bug or KG that can be speed raced through tight windy  roads.  Kind of the 
same reason if you go to VW drag races you will rarely  see a bus out on the 
drag strip!  They are just not built for that  purpose.  They are a big box on 
wheels, designed for moving lots of cargo,  passengers, or a camper interior 
to live out of.....
 
     If you are looking for higher MPH at lower engine  RPMs a Freeway Flier 
tranny will do the job at a lot less $$.  Plus the FF  tranny is a lot easier 
to maintain.
 
   In a IRS suspension every 30,000 miles you should remove the  rear stub 
axles, inspect and/or replace the four axle bearings, and repack with  new 
grease (not too much or too little grease).  Which requires the  rear wheel lug 
bolts to be loosed, after blocking the front  wheels.  Followed by jacking the 
rear of the bus up on jack stands,  and removing the rear wheels, etc..  Also a 
good time to redo the CV  joints.
 
  In the swing axle bus tranny after 30,000 miles, you take a  long drive to 
get the gear oil warm and stir up any crud in there.  Park on  a flat surface, 
check that you can loosen the fill plug in the center  section.  Then pull 
the two drain plugs out of the tranny center  section and drain.  Once drained, 
put back in the drain  plugs.  Loosen the rear tire lug bolts, jack up the 
rear of the bus  and install jack stands.  Remove rear tires, pull out RGB drain  
plugs.  Once those are drained put back in the drain plugs, and remove the  
fill plugs on the RGBs to fill them with GL-4 90 or 80/90 Wt gear oil.   Once 
the RGBs are filled, put back in the fill plugs, and fill the center  section.  
Put back on the rear wheels, drop back down the rear of the bus  and retorque 
the lug bolts to 85 Ft. Lbs..
  Takes about one hour to drain a swing axle from start to finish, and  
probably 1/3 of that time is waiting for the gear oil to drain.  About  four hours 
for doing a IRS suspension.
Eric&Barb
