Date: Mon, 11 Jul 2005 20:29:10 -0700
From: Rocky <lake.show(-at-)direcway.com>
To: Dave Johansen <rcflyerdavid(-at-)windywest.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Changing from swing axles to newer CV joint axles

Dave,

I did the conversion on my 67 bus. It is a bit of a hassle. It can be 
cheap or costly, depending on how patient you are. Of course, it does 
help to be a fabricator. Here is what I did and bought to keep it 
relatively cheap:

I purchased the following:

(2) used Thing trans flanges $30 each
(2) used bay window bus irs axles $50 total (includes the stub axles, CV 
joints listed below)
(2) used stub axles from 924 Porsche ( from drum brake type)
(4) used (but serviceable) 924 CV joints (allows bus to run at stock height)
(2) used (but serviceable) Thing brake drums $20 each
(2) used (but not warped) trailing arms for type 1 IRS (can be boxed-in 
for more strength)  $15 each
(2) used type 1 backing plates and related hardware $2 each
(2) new weld-on irs pivot mounts for a type 1 (must grind radius to 
match bus housing)  $23 set
(2) used pivot bolts $3 each
(1) used (but known good) single side plate type 1 IRS trans $100
(4) new CV joint boots for type 2 IRS  $7 each
(2) new rear wheel cylinders for 73 type 1  $12 each
(2) new 73 type 1 brake hoses  $7 each
(2) new steel brake lines (measure for fit)  $4 each
(1) used type 1 spring plate (to use as pattern for cutting and drilling 
your stock spring plates) $5
(10) type 1 lug bolts  $15 set of ten
(2) eye bolts/nuts (to use for extending the e-brake cables up front)

Important items:

- Protect the threads of the pivot mounts before welding. Splatter can 
be a real pain to get out of the threads.

- The stock spring plates must be cut/drilled/slotted to match the stock 
type 1 irs spring plate. The slots may have to be made longer to aid in 
setting the alignment toe-in.

- Only tack weld the pivot adapters in place before applying full weight 
on the bus and rolling it back and forth to allow the suspension to 
settle (for alignment check). You must weld the mounts enough to stay in 
place during this procedure, but if you fully weld it in before this, 
you will be sorry. The very next thing you do is check the alignment 
(toe in and camber). If the camber is off, the tack welds must be broken 
off and the pivot mount rotated around the torsion housing to adjust the 
camber the needed amount. Re-tack weld and check again. Do not rush, 
make sure the alignment is correct before fully welding the mounts in 
place. Set your camber with the bus at the height you will operate it at.

- Slotted spacers will need to be made to fit between the e-brake cable 
sheath and the hole in the backing plate.

- The type 1 backing plate must be installed upside down and on the 
opposite side of the bus. This permits the use of the e-brake.

- The spring plate goes inboard of the flange of the trailing arm. This 
allows the width of the rear suspension to permit the use of type 2 axles.

- The center ring of the pressure plate will have to be removed if the 
newer clutch release bearing of the IRS trans is used.

- New bump stops and shock mounts must be fabricated.


Advantages in doing this IRS conversion:

- Bus is lighter without the reduction boxes.

- Bus is quieter without the reduction boxes.

- Ring and pinion and trans case is stronger in the 3.88 single side 
plate transmissions.

- No hypoid leaks onto the brakes.

- Improved cornering and tracking on the freeway. Note: My bus is stock 
height with this conversion. Some conversions require lowering.

- Can remove the engine and trans without jacking the bus up.

- Can replace the axles quickly.

- Fairly constant camber.

- No fulcrum plates

- If an axle breaks, both axles can be easily removed to allow the bus 
to be towed on all four wheels.


Disadvantages in doing this IRS conversion:

- Fabricating can be a pain.

- Collecting the necessary parts takes time and money.

- The bus is not stock.

- Braking is not as strong as it is with a big nut trans, but seems to 
be the same as a small nut trans.

- Bug trailing arms were not designed to be used in a bus so they may 
have weight limitations. Custom fabricated trailing arms may have to be 
made to allow for heavier weight loads (like the big nut).

- Smaller lug bolts

- Stock type 1 IRS 3rd and 4th gears are not as strong as the stock type 
2 gears. (Gears can be replaced to correct this possible weakness)

- Width of the rear end is slightly wider than stock.

Conclusion: I am glad that I did the conversion. The bus handles much 
better. It is still no sports car, so I guess handling is all relative. 
My bus is much more reliable since the conversion. It is also much 
quieter. Knowing what I know now, would I do the conversion again? Oh 
yes, it was well worth it.

Rocky


Disclaimer: This information is to be used at the users own risk. Many 
steps are left out of this post. It is assumed that the user is an 
experienced fabricator and knows all the safety issues.


Dave Johansen wrote:

Has anyone changed their older swing axle to a newer CV joint axle?  Or is it
not worth the hassle of changing everything underneath associated with it.

Dave Johansen
