Cc: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Mon, 18 Jul 2005 14:11:44 -0400
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Subject: Suburban Design Core at BOTC2005

Forwarded from Adoom(-at-)SDC...

*FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE*

Many people ask, "what do I do as a sponsor at an event?". When I  
posed that question to Greg, man-in-charge, Potts last year regarding  
BOTC, his answer was pretty simple. "Whatever the hell you want. Make  
it interesting."

As a sponsor of BOTC, it is our responsibility to "do whatever the  
hell we want, and make it interesting". And Interesting we shall make  
it.
Here's what SDC, in cahoots with BOTC and EB, are doing to make your  
weekend... "interesting".

*BELLE'S MOBILE TATTOO STUDIO*
Back by popular demand,... pain.
Heather has agree'd again to do on-site tattoo's. Space is limited so  
we are asking that anyone interested in getting some ink done contact  
Heather by July 25th with your design ideas, requests, and questions.  
You can reach her at raspbelle(-at-)rogers.com . Please put "BOTC TATTOO"  
in the subject line. (this is important, your email will not get past  
the filter otherwise) This way we can arrive with the right colours,  
the right art, and yes....needles. Big....sharp.....needles.

*PAN-AM JAM STAGE*
Chris Cybulski (Everybus), Greg Potts,  and I are planning to set up  
a live&loud stage. We will supply the amps, the mics, and the drums.  
You supply the instrument, the talent, and the courage. The stage  
will be open for a few hours only on Saturday afternoon. We request  
that people treat the gear with respect, and rock.

*GLASSBUS*
Once again Heather will have her fused glass buses for sale. These  
were quite popular at Everybus, so here's your chance. These are all  
hand made by Heather, in a basement, in the suburbs.

*ANTI-EVENTS*
Because they are anti-events, you may not know they are happening.  
Throughout the weekend we will be randomly announcing some events  
that, well, aren't your typical event. Here's a hint, if you own a  
black t-shirt, bring it.

And don't forget your BOTC Shirt. Shirt design and ordering  
instructions are available at http://www.busesofthecorn.com

Now go get back to work, your boss is about to walk by in  
3......2.......1.......

Adoom & Belle
SDC Messengers of fun and pain.

visit the site that never gets finished
http:www.busesofthecorn.com/suburban
