From: "Eric Allred" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "VintageBus list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Jul 2005 16:41:16 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] Porsche Pulley 

One thing that isn't being taken into consideration, is that a head casting
is only going to be able to disperse so much heat no matter how much air you
blow over it.

Like Lou, I drove my bus in 100-110 degree heat (and above) with it loaded
with over 1K lbs. of gear plus what was loaded onto the roof rack (picture
five guys driving 1300 miles round trip to a VW show with a week worth of
camping gear plus gear to handle a 1 1/2 year old during that time as
well!). But the thing is, I just used the stock pulleys and never had a
heating issue.

So is the Porsche pulley worth it? IMHO I think it is still inconclusive. I
haven't seen anyone do a true back to back test with a stock pulley ratio
versus an increased ratio to see what difference it actually made. "It seems
to run cooler" doesn't jive with me. If the numbers aren't there, then they
aren't there. I want to see head temp figures between the two before I
decide if it does anything or not. Yes common sense says "more air = more
cooling", but it's not that simple really.

IMHO, a more efficient way to increase the cooling of our motors is to
increase surface area on the head to help disperse the heat into the air
that the fan is providing. I know of some shops that would sandblast the
cooling fins on a head and cylinders to increase the cooling capacity of
them, but other than that, nobody i've heard of has done more than that.
I've got one idea figured out that would increase the fin surface area by 74
percent. But, I don't currently have a Type 1 powered VW daily driver
anymore so I can't test it out yet. I would like to find out if more surface
area alone would be enough, or to be fully efficient, I would need to
increase the fan output as well. I don't have the awnsers to that right now
unfortunatly.

Another spot people overlook a lot is intake into the engine bay. At 4000
rpm the cooling system is pulling a TON of air. But the stock louvers can
only pull so much through them. If you only rely on the stock louvers on the
side of the bus to provide enough intake area for the engine and fan, and
you're running anything larger than a 1500 singleport, you're choking off
the air supply to the motor (In my opinion even a 1500 SP is pushing it).
You can increase the fan ratio all you want, you aren't going to pull much
more air though those louvers. You have to provide enough opening to the
engine bay that you will not create a vacuum which inhibits your cooling
greatly. You've got to have that pressure build up in that shroud to take
full advantage of the cooling you have.

But now i'm rambling so I better stop now. :-)

Eric Allred
