From: "Lou & Lis" <vwdragon(-at-)citlink.net>
To: "VintageBus list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 20 Jul 2005 16:55:01 -0700
Subject: [VB] Porsche Pulley

 OK, my Bus is a '61 Westy, here are some of my thought's or reason's for the
Porsche pulley set-up, 1:2.20 ratio.
I want to cruise on the highway at 65-70 MPH, OK, I'm running a freeway flier
tranny & 205/75R/15 tires.  So my RPMs(3200 at 65-67 MPH) are lower then stock
for any given highway speed which makes my fan speed less accordingly.  At
speed the forces against the Bus are the same though, air, rolling resistance
with less air to the cooling system.  Added to that a type-4 oil cooler which
flows more air through it makes for even less air available to flow
over/through the heads.
 I contacted a well known engine builder that sells external oil coolers
w/fans to order one, he asked what i had and recommended the smaller pulley
first.  So instead of him getting $200+ for the oil cooler he received my $39
for the pulley!  He said he had proof from cooling tests on his dyno.
 I do not run heater boxes so I made a shield that keeps the J tube heat from
heating the heads at the closest point along the length of the heads. I also
wrap the header system with header wrap where it's near the heads.
 I agree with the overall lack of air as Eric pointed out, I run a 2017, duel
carbs, largest fan, etc.  I made an air intake scoop that draws air into the
engine bay from under the bus and enters the engine bay near the starter
through a 3" aluminum dryer hose.  The entrance hole is in the forward tin not
the Bus's body.
 Although I have not done any direct comparisons* this does keep my oil and
head temps at a reasonable level and I'm past 15K in miles all on the
interstate.  There is a side effect I like and that is the quick cool down.
When you pull off the interstate for fuel the temps drop almost right away
before you reach the pumps you can see the drop.
 Just my thoughts,
  Lou in Havasu
*I do cover the air intake under the bus and put the stock gen/alt pulley on
if I do any long distance driving in winter.
