From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 24 Jun 2003 23:17:39 +0000
Subject: thermodynamics lesson

The third law of thermodynamics states that whenever entropy is decreased, a 
corresponding greater increase of entropy must occur somewhere in the 
universe.  My garage has become a living example of this as I slowly piece 
together the bus.  Each incremental step I make towards getting the bus back 
together results in a larger increase of disorder in my garage.  I had 
everything from the bus disassembly in plastic baggies, and stashed in a 
couple of boxes.  Now the contents of both boxes are strewn all over the 
garage, rolling around loose on the floor, hiding in my toolbox, and I won't 
even mention what the workbench top looks like.  It is extremely satisfying 
to slowly see the bus coming back together.

For those that can remember, the bus is a euro spec with a hacked wiring 
harness.  I decided to piece it back together to original thanks to the 
wiring diagrams at vintagebus.com (thanks thom).  I printed out the diagram 
on a sheet of 11x17 paper, and the fuse block and the key on 8 1/2 x 11 
paper and stuck them on the back of the 11x17 sheet, and got it laminated.  
That's the way to go, in case anybody is thinking about printing out the 
diagram.

Went to the junkyard, and they let me pull everything electrical I could get 
my hands on from a bay window bus for $45.  More than I would have liked to 
spend, but I got my money's worth :-)  The wires from the later bus 
preserve, for the most part, the same colors of wire for the same functions, 
so I've been able to replace all the missing wires with original looking 
ones.  I've been using uninsulated solderless butt connectors  to connect 
wires, then I solder them anyway, and cover with black shrink wrap.  All new 
female spade connectors at the terminals.   it looks gooood, in an 
electrical engineering geek sort of way.

Drilled open the headlight switch and soldered it up as per E&B and Matt 
roberds.  Should work nice!  Cleaned up the fusebox, and bought new turn 
signal and tail light bulbs.  Installed euro style brazilian repro 
taillights from ronnie, had to cut the edges off the plastic lenses to get 
them to fit inside the chrome ring, but they look really nice.  I put 
together a voltage drop for the fuel gauge (bus will be 12v) using a power 
transistor thanks to an old post from NQ in the archives (remember him?  
Thanks erin!). Lastly, installed the baywindow fuel tank last night, as well 
as new positive and negative battery cables.

Whew!  things are coming together.  Still a ways to go, but it's fun to see 
the dash all put together with the speedo, fuel gauge, switches, etc. all in 
place, and I know that it's wired correctly.  Next I'm going to add some 
dedicated taillight ground wires, then replace the 6v armature in the wiper 
motor  with a 12v one .  Throw a battery in the bus, and make sure 
everything works.  Then once the electrical is done, fill and bleed the 
brake system (all new lines, 72-79 dual circuit MC, new wheel cylinders and 
shoes), install window rubber, then on to getting the engine in (1600 dp 
w/kadrons, rebuilt by local engine builder).

Problem is that it's been rainy this week, and I've found a leak in my roof. 
  Now it appears that funds will have to be diverted from the bus into the 
house.  Sigh.  Isn't that the way it goes, though?  Reading my list email 
does help me keep motivated to continue putting it back together.  Every 
time that wheel goes round.....

Thanks for reading,

Mike A.
'64 SO-34 in SLC
