Date: Thu, 26 Jun 2003 02:28:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Gary Gibson <meckie1(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] POR15 thoughts/opinions

Or, you could just ask me! ;-)

My 67 Deluxe has been running with POR-15 on it, in it, and thru it for
close to 8 years now, and it all seems to be well. Areas such as the wheel
wells, the front under-chassis and frames, are all holding up well, with
no stone chips or visible or feelable weakening. I agree with Ron, that
any bodywork, with or without POR, must be maintained and checked, or else
it could end up like that Porsche floor panel he mentioned - all rust
with POR on top and bottom.

I have POR wearing off in several areas of high rubbing, but it's all
fully manageable - the areas I'm speaking of are where the cargo doors
locking rods scrape against the floor hole areas that they lock into. I've
also noticed a bit of possible under-rust going on on one of my front
floor panels - something to watch for a while. But so far, there is simply
NO rust on any body panels, door inner surfaces, door lower areas - places
that are constantly wet for months during the winters here in Northern
Cal. My battery compartment is POR'd and looking really good - no rust
there. Both rear lower corners from the belt on down - inner surfaces
POR'd during the resto in 94/95, all solid, no rusting.

I POR'd my bumpers, under the primer and topcoat, when they were restored
during the resto, and when the front bumper gets hit with a rock, there is
a break in the topcoat, down to the primer, then it stops - never seen a
hit that penetrated down to the metal. The primer was sprayed when the POR
was almost cured - in the tacky stage (see my 'sermons' back when). I
touch-up the break, using my ever-dwindling supply of original paint from
the resto, and there's no rusting so far.

So, in summary, as probably the first guinea pig on this list to use, and
then recommend POR, it's looking good so far.

cal

On Tue, 24 Jun 2003, Gary Gibson wrote:

> Cal Grant has written much about POR 15 to this list.  Looking up Cal's
> POR 15 "sermons" in the archives will give a lot of useful info on this
> material!   Gary Gibson
