Date: Thu, 26 Jun 2003 14:15:46 -0700
From: "LilBlauWagen" <wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net>
To: "the Spaeth's" <spaeth(-at-)gorge.net>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] POR 15...

The Spaeth's wrote:
> I have always used Corrolless from Eastwood co. I have not used POR15
> but here are my reasons for choosing Corrolless over the POR. Corrolless
> is supposedly used to protect oil rigs built in salt water

Have you read the Por labratory tests? Same deal according to them, loves salt water.

>Corrolless is UV stable so you do not have to top coat it.

You dont *have* to topcoat Por either, it will just loose its luster shine after exposure to UV.
(Reminds me of an anodize look)
Then again, Why wouldn't you be painting the area to match anyway, thus covering up either rust
coater?? Por's problem with exposure to UV never seemed like a "disadvantage" to me for that very
reason, its always gonna be painted to match.

>You can prime over the top of it (Corrolless) without any special primers or priming while still
tacky.

You can also prime over Por without special primers or priming while tacky. Just like normal paint,
the surface must be scuffed, or at least the shine knocked down. I recall Por reccomending just
using 600 grit and ive done it long after por has dried before with good results.  I would think
corrolless would need to be scuffed as well or how could anything stick to it, just like any other
paint? Priming while tacky just eliminates the step of scuffing it after it dries. Helps tie it
together easier.

>Corrolless also cleans up with regular paint thinner and can be sprayed on.

Thats one thing i agree corrolless has over Por, but it makes me wonder, ya know? Por can obviously
adhere pretty dang well even to an oily surface like your skin, and not wash off no matter what you
do. Is that a sign of better durability? I dunno.

>(Corrolless) can come in spray cans but one thing I found is they are prone to plugging.
> If you start spraying with one of the cans, I try and finish the can,
> because it may never start again.

Wouldnt holding the can upside down after use and spraying it for a few seconds until it gets clear
take care of that problem?

>I called Eastwood about this and they
> sent me a replacement can no questions asked. I hadn't even asked for
> one.

eastwood rules.

-Wade
Just my 2" on Por
[...]
