Date: Sat, 5 Feb 2005 20:58:10 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Rivi progress and fuel pump thread seal question

OK, 11 day work shifts suck.

the weather turned nasty so even though I had the Rivi right outside the
door at work I couldn't get the axles in during that stretch. I finally
towed it the 500 feet to the storage unit/garage when the rain let up some.

When I got off work finally on the 30th I was wiped out so I slept all day.
Went to the storage unit Tuesday and worked on the Rivi. Needed to move
stuff around and shift the bus to one side some to get under it so I
decided to do the fuel pump before the axles. Bought a nice carter rotary
to replace the ticking Facet and leaky pressure regulator. Shouldn't need
the regulator with the Carter but will probably add one back in later for
peace of mind.

Pulled the Facet out. Found a place on the firewall to put the Carter. Got
it all done Tuesday. Had to pretend I have a life (pay bills etc) on
Wednesday and Thursday so I didn't get back to it until Thursday night.

Turned on the key and I can hear the Carter sucking air. What sholud I use
to seal the threads on a fuel pump. I was hoping the NPT fittings would
self-seal. I'm not sure what to use for thread sealing that will be
gasoline resistant.

So, the fuel pump will wait until I get an answer to that question. Only
have to pull the fittings, add sealer, and put them back in. 10 minutes
tops.

Shoved the bus out and adjusted it back into a "almost centered in the 10
feet" position in the storage bay so I could work a jack on both sides. Got
the passenger side up and ran a wire for the oil pressure gauge. Need to
figure out where to mount the gauges but they can stay in their boxes on
the dash for now.

Then I did the passenger side axle. Managed to only stick one shoulder
(work jacket) in the grease. Two plastic bags per CV to force the grease
down inside then keep it there until I was ready to try getting a bolt in.

It still amazes me that those 6 skinny bolts per CV is what actually
pushes that heavy a$$ vehicle and they don't just snap off.

One more axle then I'll start tracking electrical gremlins. The wiring
doen't appear to be too trashed. They replaced most fuses with glass ones.
I had to locate some regular fuses to buy because I think all my spares
were in one of the toolboxes that got stolen. I found a few packs of reds
and whites at an Advance FLAPS so I should be able to get the fuse panel
filled correctly and then see where juice isn't going that it should be.
Currently no turn signals, headlights, or wipers. parking lights and 4 way
flashers work. Brake lights untested.

Hopefully Monday I'll get a pile done.

Gerald
