Date: Sun, 6 Feb 2005 10:51:41 +0000 (GMT)
From: dworkin <dworkin(-at-)everybus.com>
To: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)germansupply.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Please help me understand brake calipers

On Sat, 5 Feb 2005, scott lyons wrote:

> All the 73-up calipers I have seen have two bleeder screws. This means that
> there is really no left and right caliper, they are both the same, but the
> pistons are rotated in the caliper to make it a left or right.

Scott,

I am afraid that there is a very definite difference between right and
left calipers on the the '73-79 buses.  If you will look at the bolts that
hold the caliper to the steering knuckle, you will see that one is
threaded all the way up and the other has a plain shank for part of its
length.  If you match these to the caliper, you will see that one of the
holes has a slight step in it that prevents you from inserting the wrong
bolt into the wrong hole.  It is my understanding that the plain-shank
bolt should be assembled in the trail position ONLY [1].  As a result the
calipers can only be used on one side.

The difference in the calipers is there and obvious once pointed out, but
the orientation is "what I was told".  If anyone (KARL!!!!) knows
different, please correct me on this.

In addition, the alignment plates also have a "handedness" and care should
be taken to make sure they do not get mixed up during the rebuild.

All that having been said, I have seen calipers mis-installed, plates with
the ears squashed flat with pistons in many random orientations, and
totally missing plates during initial service on vehicles I have touched
thru the years.  None of these seemed to have any obvious negative effect
so I can't say why the spec is is what it is, I just know what I was
taught and I correct the brakes to the extent possible when I first get my
hands on a bus.  Note that the plates, if missing, are strictly a junkyard
item and here in Virginia, buses in junkyards are pretty rare.

Steve Dolan


[1] I had and have a great deal of trouble with orientation sometimes.  I
rewrote this a couple times trying to be clear and cannot.  As best I can
describe it, imagine you are working on the front right (passenger side in
the US) brake caliper.  Looking at it with the road wheel off, the bolts
that hold the caliper on are located at about 7 o'clock and 10 o'clock.
The plain-shank bolt should be in the 7 o'clock position.  That way, as
the pad activates it is pulling on the plain-shank bolt and pushing on the
threaded bolt.  Once again, if I am wrong, I'd love to be corrected.
