From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Dave Wolfanger" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 16 May 2003 12:33:07 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] AGAIN an aluminum case update

----- Original Message
-------------------------------------------------------

I would be very interested in aircooled.net's
list of known defects of the new aluminum
type 1 cases. There seems to be considerable
confusion regarding this, and the frequency
in which they appear.
My first inquiry  regarding the cases was at
the # 5000 mark, and I was told the only
verified defect was a problem with packaging
and breakage in shipment, and some minor
cleaning issues.
It now appears that some defects have been resolved
only to be replaced by several significant others.
Checking a case for defects is one thing.
( Finding them is quite another :)

Aircooled.net has an interesting sales pitch.
They offer a WARRANTY for $50 to cover defects,
and "will not refund in-house machining options
without it". Evidently, having a case machined by
a trained professional is not enough to guarantee
the case you haven't seen yet does not contain
any known defects. It also does not cover shipping costs.
I assume the warranty is also not refundable when you
discover the obvious defect and use it to secure
the refund, and not purchasing the warranty will guarantee
NO refund of an obviously defective case.
Does this make any sense ?
What is the time limit of this warranty period ?

What are the statistical odds of anyone getting
a defective case WITHOUT your warranty plan ?
What are the statictical odds of anyone getting
TWO defective cases WITH your warranty plan :) ?!
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------

Why should ACN inform you of all the defects when you may just purchase the
case from a low-ball vendor that isn't even aware of the problems themselves
(or they ARE aware of them and are just keeping their mouths shut so they can
sell more cases)? ACN supports their customers. The fact that there is a
"warrantee" available (it should be thought of as "insurance") should tell you
something about the "quality" (or lack of it) of even the newest aluminum
cases. ACN has ALWAYS (that includes NOW) recommended the use of Magnesium
cases for all engines built up to 500hp in output, where the head studs on Mag
cases will removed themselves from the case under massive boost (the aluminum
are stronger). The sole exceptions are

1) 500hp or more

2) off road cars where the car is JUMPED. Hard landings on vehicles that do
not have an adequate engine support in the rear can cause the bellhousing area
on the Mag cases to crack. The Aluminum cases are much stronger in this area.

I do agree that the Al cases have more potential, but currently there are more
problems then benefits, so we continue to recommend Magnesium. If you do work
thru all the problems on the Al cases, you will have a stronger case, but DO
YOU NEED IT? The Al cases have also resulted in a 15 degree increase in oil
temps compared to Magnesium.

Hopefully this gives you enough info to make an informed decision.

John Connolly
Aircooled.Net Inc.
