Date: Fri, 16 May 2003 15:28:05 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Spedo broke ?

>From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
>Date: Fri, 9 May 2003 15:30:06 -0700
>
>After I started down the road the spedo wasn't turning anyway, broken
>spedo.

I used a $20 bicycle speedo from Wal-Mart on my Bus once.  My regular
speedo worked fine; I was just trying to see if I could do it and
possibly get an idea of how much my non-stock tires were throwing off
my stock speedo.

The bicycle speedo has a display, a two-wire cable, and a reed switch.
A magnet goes on your bicycle wheel spokes to trip the reed switch.
I extended the two-wire cable and mounted the switch to the end of the
torsion arm with a zip-tie.  I used a button magnet (that didn't come
with the switch) on the inside of the wheel, with duct tape over it
for extra security.  I hung the display from the overhead air vent in
the cab.  You have to set up the speedo with a number that corresponds
to the OD of your tire; the instruction pamphlet usually has examples
for several bike tires and from that you can work out whether it wants
the radius, diameter, or circumference in inches or mm or cm or whatever.

Much to my surprise, all this actually worked.  The main problem was
that if the switch wasn't close enough to the magnet it wouldn't pick
up, but if it was too close it'd get knocked out of the way.  But I
did drive around for several miles with this rig.

Another possibility would be to take a spare RGB plug, top or bottom,
and machine it to accept a Hall-effect sensor that would count the
gear teeth as they go by.  You'd have to know how many gear teeth you
have, but the gear speed would be directly related to road speed.  I've
never tried this.

Having the stock speedo is probably best for long-term use.  But if you
absolutely have to know how fast you're going, you can find out with the
bike speedo.

Matt Roberds
now answering mail after a week out of town
