Date: Fri, 16 May 2003 15:48:20 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: cooling and charging in a 58 - help

>From: "Tom Purdum" <tom(-at-)groundzeroroasting.com>
>Date: Sat, 10 May 2003 20:34:07 -0700
>
>There is a large red wire running from the B+ terminal of the alt. to
>the + terminal of the battery.  There are also 3 push on stile connectors
>in front of the B+ post on the alt.

Sounds like you have the later Bug style alternator.  The housing is
about the same diameter as a Bus generator where it sits on the pedestal,
and then gets bigger around between the pedestal and the pulley.  It will
be either a Bosch or a Motorola part - the Motorola logo is an M in a
circle: http://www.motorola.com/images/global/motologo_global.gif

There are internal-regulator alternators, but since you have the three
push-ons (three sides of a square), yours probably needs a regulator.
In a Bug, the regulator lived under the back seat on the left side.
Probably you need the regulator out of a '74 Bug - other years may work
but I know that the '74s had an alternator.

You'll need to mount the regulator someplace - in the engine compartment
is probably easiest.  Later Buses had it on the inside of the right wheel
well.  Make sure the regulator case/mounting bracket is well-connected
to the body for a ground.

The connection you already have from the B+ stud to battery positive is
correct.  You need to run a 14-gauge wire (stock was brown) from D- on
the alternator to D- on the regulator.  Another 14-gauge wire (stock
was green) goes from DF on the alternator to DF on the regulator.
Finally, a third 14-gauge wire (stock was red) goes from D+ on the
alternator to D+ on the regulator.  The blue warning light wire coming
from the front also hooks to D+; this can be done at the alternator or
at the regulator.  For more details, look at the left side of a '73-up
Bug or Ghia wiring diagram at vintagebus.com .

To test, measure the battery voltage with everything shut off - you
should have 12.6 volts for a fully charged battery.  Start the engine
and rev it up a little.  The warning light should go out and the voltage
at the battery should go up by at least a volt.  If that's working, go
for a nice drive to charge up the battery and check it again - you
shouldn't be able to make the voltage at the battery go over about
15.0 V by revving the engine.

Matt Roberds
now answering mail after a week out of town
