Date: Fri, 16 May 2003 16:54:46 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: turn signal quick fix

>From: Don J <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>
>Date: Thu, 15 May 2003 23:28:30 -0400
>
>Can I just splice the rear wire into the front wire down at the 5 wire
>connector?  When I jump these two connections inside the switch with a
>small screwdriver, everything seems to work fine, including brake
>lights.

If you disconnect the rear bulb wire from the switch, and splice it into
the front bulb wire, the rear light on that side will work with the turn
signals but not the brakes.  If you leave the rear wire connected to the
switch and add a jumper between the rear and front wires, the rear light
will work with the brakes and turn signals, but your front turn signal
on that side will probably light up when you step on the brakes.

If the DMV doesn't care about your turn signals, I'd probably make sure
the brake lights are rock solid reliable and then just drive it to the
DMV on the side streets and not during rush hour.  As far as I know,
hand signals for turns are still legal in most states.

If you have to make the turn signals work for an inspection, and you can't
get your switch to behave, go to the FLAPS and buy a trailer tail light
converter for about $10.  Usually the input side will have 5 wires and
the output side will have 4 wires.  Ignore the running light wires and
ground the ground wires to leave you with 3 input wires (left, right,
stop) and 2 output wires (left, right).  Splice the left input wire to
the left front turn signal, the right input wire to the right front turn
signal, and the stop input wire to the wire from the brake light switch.
Run the right output wire directly to the right rear light and the left
output wire directly to the left rear light.  This will make your rear
lights work correctly for the test, and then let you fix your switch at
your leisure later.  Basically, you're letting the switch only operate
the front lights, and allowing the converter to handle the switching for
the rear lights.

Matt Roberds
