From: "Eric Allred" <eaallred(-at-)lvcm.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 29 Apr 2002 08:43:42 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Run the thermostat or not?

Running the thermostat and flaps does a few things for you.
One thing, is they warm up your engine a LOT quicker,than without.  Anytime
your engine is not running at operating temperature, there is accelerated
wear.

The flaps, when in place, cool the engine better/properly.  Without the
flaps in place, the air coming from the shroud is going to find the easiest
way past the motor.  It's easy to see, that the cooling air is going to be
going past the cylinders, more than the heads.  With the flaps in place,
they divert  force air to go through the head, where it is needed.

But of course, a ton of people run without them, and of course they say they
run fine without them.  And that's true.  There is no seat of the pants
difference.  They just reduce wear, and help the motor last longer.

Eric
64 delux

----- Original Message -----
From: "Dan Kinsey" <thatvwguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "3 - VB List" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>; "1 - Buskatiers"
<buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Sent: Monday, April 29, 2002 4:46 AM
Subject: [VB] Run the thermostat or not?



The engine I'm running was built a couple years ago.  It was built on a
brand new case.  The case does not have the provision for the thermostat
bracket so at the time I didn't install one.  Figure since my case didn't
have one they must not be running thermostats down in Brazil, Mexico, or
where ever they are/were selling new "old style" Beetles at the time.  All
the places they were still selling the Type 1 Beetle generally have a hot
climate...I live in Florida so my thinking at the time was that I would be
okay if I just let it warm up a little before heading out.  Engine runs fine
but I'm going to be pulling it this week for some other work and was having
some second thoughts on the thermostat and was thinking about putting one
in.  Any opinions?  (Ha, like bus folks don't have opinions on engines!)

Thanks,
Dan




