From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net'" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>,
Date: Mon, 29 Apr 2002 21:44:59 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Puyallup Road Trip [long]

I am entirely embarrassed that someone from so far away could make a meet
that was just down the road from me, and I couldn't ! I sat all morning
Sunday drawing VW emblems on my wife's cast. She kept asking me, "Honey,
what are you thinking about?"

OH well. Hey Clara, did I hear right. You guys make door and wall panels?
For sale? For like a 67 SC? hmmmmm

67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT
71 Trike 1776cc 32/36 Progressive
VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
Ray, Kent WA
A loose rattlesnake in the living room ends discussion of animal rights


-----Original Message-----
From: bus-snob [mailto:hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Monday, April 29, 2002 1:01 AM
To: vintagebus
Subject: [VB] Puyallup Road Trip [long]



Well last Monday I decided to put my 61 flipseat up 
for sale, and I did so on the planet. That same day I was contacted by a guy
in 
Tacoma, WA who was interested in the bus. After a bunch of long e-mails, a
few 
phone calls, and about 60 digital pics, we struck a deal. After considering 
a few pick-up possibilties, I threw out the suggestion of me delivering it
to 
him, since there was also a VW show in Puyallup,WA, which is about 15 or so 
miles from Tacoma. Hey, I could use the road trip and show, and this would
also 
save him the hassle of coming down and having to drive it back and him
missing 
work. So that turned out to be the plan. On Wednesday evening I suggested to

Rachel that she come along, since I would now be returning on Sunday, rather

than Monday as originally planned. This way she would not miss any work and
we 
could have one last trip in the bus.

After a very quick week of light maintenance to the 
bus, some flight reservations, and arranging rides home from the San Jose 
Airport on Sunday (thanks Roger!!!), the plan was set. We packed on Thursday

night and planned on an early Friday departure for the nearly 900 mile trip.
We 
were about 25 miles into the trip when we realized we forgot some things
like 
toiletries, and that I forgot to unpack the camping supplies from the bus
(food, 
kinves, plates, etc), but we ventured on.

Mid-Friday afternoon we entered Yreka,CA to find a 
VW shop that had 4+ splitty busses lined up along the fence that faced the 
freeway. We decided (Rachel convinced me) to stop and we did. We checked out
the 
busses, bugs, type 3's and the piles of parts and had a nice chat with the 
owner. Then after a big dinner at the Black Bear Diner (?), we were back on
the 
road. The hours passed and we soon decided to stop for the evening at a nice

rest stop about 30 miles south of Eugene, OR. Oregon is strange, because it
is a 
state where you can't pump your own gasoline. We stopped in a town to 
get gas (in the rain of course) where the attendant obviously didn't get out

much. He was really proud of the mopped floors in the bathrooms and how he
had 
noticed that there seemed to be alot of people stopping in who had been 
"drinkin' ". He was also overly cautious when he pulled the gas nozzle out
of 
the tank, because he held his hand under the nozzle as to not get a drop of
gas 
on the paint. Nice gesture, but I'd still rather pump my own gas. Oh 
well.

Saturday found us driving on I-5 for more hours, 
and it was nice to cross into Washington and go to a "normal" gas station
again. 
I got some Green River soda, which I thought was in a green bottle, but it
was 
actually the soda that was green. Tasted a little like liquid green jell-o.
A 
few hours later we arrived at Clara's house and spent a while checking out
the 
busses, seeing the parts, and watching Clara and Bruce making door and kick 
panels. After a while we decided to leave, and after we chased the dog away
from 
the bag of bagels he had dragged into the yard we were off. 

There was supposed to be a Wet-Westies gathering at 
a drive-in restaurant across from the fairgrounds, but only a few people 
actually showed up, and none from the Wet-Westies. Kinda disappointing to
drive 
all that way and then have nobody know what's going on. But we did meet some

nice people regardless. The (now) new owner of the flipseat showed up, gave
it a 
look-over and we went out for a test drive. The deal was finalized and we
agreed 
on a time to meet the following morning before the show.

Rachel and I were under the impression that since 
the swappers and cars-for-sale people were getting into the fairgrounds the 
night before, you could stay inside the fairgrounds overnight. We bought a
"For 
Sale" pass and went in. We were wrong. I mean, geez, you unload your parts
and 
then leave them? Not heard of, but I guess that's the way it is up there. 
Definitely NOT like crime-ridden So-Cal for sure. So we left and tried to
stay 
in the lot across from the gate. Then the lot attendants came  around and 
told us it was $16 to camp! Uh---NO! We went up the hill and camped next to
some 
people from Vancouver, B.C. in the Wall-Mart parking lot. It was cold and
damp, 
and the lights stayed on all night, which whenever I woke up made me think
it 
was daylight and we missed the early gate opening.

Around 6:30 we headed down to the fairgrounds, used 
our "for sale" passes, and beat the crowds into the swaps. Rachel and I
found 
some good deals the night before and early in the morning, but the fact that
we 
had to fly back limited the size of our purchases. I could have easily
bought 
ALOT more stuff, and probably would have if I would have had a vehicle to
drive 
back in.

At 8:30 we met the buyer of the bus, did the deal, 
and then met up with Scott McWilliams, who was up from San Diego on family 
matters. There were also some swappers set up in the parking lot, so we did 
some shopping there as well. We went in (before the crowds were let in 
officially), Scott got in for free, and we spent the rest of the morning 
shopping. We ran into David Mayes, who was of course scouring all the greasy

parts boxes for those elusive Kamax bolts, and he actually found some! He
also 
got a "correct" generator for the tipper and some other tipper stuff. Plus
his 
"big" score was 1 5mm bolt and nut for the rear bumper splash pan to bumper 
bracket. It was almost too much fun to watch when he asked the (obviously) 
unknowing lady at the swap space if he could "just buy the bolt" off the
splash 
pan. Ah, cheap entertainment! 

It was also nice to finally meet in 
person Eric   Barb (VeeWee), and to blow Eric's mind with that $20 
55-58 front bumper score that somehow he missed. (It was well hidden in the 
guy's space, so don't feel too bad).

After a few hours, Scott, Rachel and I had to leave 
to catch our planes. We loaded some parts in David's water-beetle and said
our 
good-byes. (Thanks again for UPS-ing the stuff to me!!) We grabbed a quick
bite 
to eat at a Denny's near the airport and then caught the shuttle to the
airport. 
Lucky Rachel and I were among the "chosen few" who got our luggage searched
and 
frisked at the gate. A hassle, but not a big deal, just annoying. I guess
it's 
easier to explain the bus crank start handles to the security guys rather
than 
have them open the luggage behind the wall. A smooth flight and then a quick

ride home from Roger (Thanks again!!!) and it was into the shower and off to

bed.

Overall it was a very enjoyable, yet fast weekend. 
Plans seemed to go smoothly and fell together very fast and very 
well.

The show at Puyallup was pretty good. Not too many 
busses, but alot of LOWERED bugs. Why does everything seem to be LOWERED up 
there? The swap was pretty good too. Not too much NOS stuff, but alot of
good 
engine stuff, mechanical parts, and stuff like that. I saw alot of really
good 
prices, and alot of people had good bus sheetmetal CHEAP, like the 64-67 bus

driver's rear side/corner, clean, cut off nicely for $10!!! There were some 
crazy prices too, but overall things seemed very reasonable. There was also
a 
TON of 36hp stuff.

I was a little disappointed in the lack of 
organization of the Wet-Westies and the lack of knowledge by almost everyone
as 
to what actually went on as far as getting in, setting up, and camping 
arrangements. But hey, it was still fun, the weather was pretty nice,  and 
Rachel and I defintely plan to go to that show again in the future. Thanks
to 
Scott McWilliams, Roger Nang, David "can I just buy the bolt" Mayes, Clara 
Willams, and anyone else I forgot, for making this a fun, smooth 
trip.

 

 

 
