Date: Fri, 29 Mar 2002 15:38:37 -0500 (EST)
From: H Steven Dolan <dworkin(-at-)type2.com>
To: Phillip Rose <phillip(-at-)technostate.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Stuck during break pad replacementjob ( BOTTOM BLEEDER BOLT

On Fri, 29 Mar 2002, Phillip Rose wrote:

> Hello.  I am new to the list and this is my first posting.

Welcome!

> I am replacing the brake pads on my 76 camper and am unable to get the
> break pad closest to the outside of the wheel in place.

Phillip, There are three reasons the piston might not want to go back into
the caliper.  They are:

piston rusted to the bore of the caliper;
a piece of schmutz is blocking a line somewhere, that is:
  the flex line between the caliper an the body is swelled shut or
  your metal line is blocked or bent;
return valve in the master cylinder is frozen.

> I think this is because the bottom bleeder bolt isn't bleeding, so I
> can't get the "I don't know what it is called" to compress.

It's called "the piston" :-)  the bottom bleeder screw is for intial
filling when you are installing a new caliper.  It isn't used for anything
else, as far as I know.

> Does anyone have any suggestions as to what I can do to get this job
> done?

Common:
In my experience the cause is almost certainly a blocked flex line.  They
are rubber and over time (like 25 years), the brake fluid interacts with
the rubber and causes it to swell shut.

Less Common:
The second candidate, if your bus spent substantial time as a lawn
ornament is tha the piston is rusted to the bore.

Uncommon:
The return valve in the master cylinder does sometimes stick or get gummed
up, but that is rare in my experience (happened to me once on a '71 SB,
this may not even apply to buses)
The metal lines may also be rusted.  this used to qualify as rare, but as
time passes, it is getting more common.

Some other symptoms that will tell you more are:

  If the pads on that wheel were substantially more worn than those on the
  other side, then that flex hose is probably blocked and the flex hoses
  need to be replaced.

  If only that pad is more worn, then that piston is probably frozen
  (rusted) and the calipers need to be replaced.

  If the front pads all wore evenly  and quickly (like <5K miles, then the
  master cylinder return vavle is probably stuck and you need a new master
  cylinder.

Others have suggested other tools for compressing the pistons back into
the calipers.  All will work, and it is something of a "religious
arguement"... use what you are used to that works for you, but I use my
Vice-Grip 12LC pliers.  They work like a champ and have a million and one
other uses as well.

While you are down there, you should also look at the condition of your
metal lines.  They do rust, albeit very slowly, After 25 years, I have
seen substantial rust on some (like totally gone!) and it is something you
should look for.

                           Steve Dolan

/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


