Date: Sat, 30 Mar 2002 11:32:39 -0800 (PST)
From: Nick Palmer <nicholas(-at-)brigadoon.slackers.net>
To: Mark Durrant <mark_durrant(-at-)bigfoot.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 Can't get idle going fast enough

You should trouble shoot using the L-jet manual. It is an invaluable 
reference. Can't remember where else it is served up right now, but you 
can get a copy from me at: http://www.slackers.net/~nicholas/l-jet
Follow the flow chart in this manual and you will find your problem. One 
thing it doesn't talk about is the spring in the AFM, which may have to be 
adjusted if you are too lean, which is a pretty good guess, though it 
could be lots of other things. Follow the l-jet manual, and if you still 
can't get it right then adjust the AFM spring.

Two turns on the mixture screw may not be enough to make a difference if
it is way out of whack. Open up the AFM and the loosening the spring
inside. I just tightened this on my '77 as it was running way rich, and I
could not get the mixture adjust screw to do the job. 

Pry the black part off of the AFM (it is glued on), and you will see a
clock type spring with a piece of wire holding it in place. Mark the black
gear where the wire currently is, and then loosen the bolt holding the
wire and turn the black gear one way or the other. Tighter on the spring
(clockwise) will make it leaner, counter clockwise will make it richer.
You should really check it with a CO meter. What I did on mine was set the
idle adjust screw about three turns from bottoming out. Then I tightened
the spring in increments and tried it, until it seemed to be running a
little lean. I set timing and idle again, and then used the idle adjust
screw to richen it back up until the idle smoothe out, and then 1/4 turn
more. Set idle and timing one more time and away we go. This is what the
Probst book says to do if you don't have a CO meter. When I had it tested
it was just a touch lean.

Also, when it was rich I could bottom out the idle screw, and it still 
idled a little high. Now the idle screw sits nicely at about two turns 
out. Check everything mechanical and electrical first, and then adjust the 
spring. Good luck. Let me know how it turns out.

Hope this helps.
-Nick
'77 Riviera


