Date: Tue, 28 Mar 2006 00:18:01 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: daniel nelson <danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Evaluating CV joints...

On Mon, 27 Mar 2006, daniel nelson wrote:

> Im having a hard time finding the answer to my questions. I have my axles
> off my bus and am taking the axles off my parts bus. I want to use the best
> 4 CV joints out of the 8. I have new CV boot kits with hardware and grease.

Question:  Are the joints making noise?  If they aren't, you're better
off, IMHO, to simply clean and grease them and give them new boots.  "if
it ain't broke, don't fix it!

In my poorer days, I cleaned and reinstalled pitted CV joints because I
didn't have the bucks to replace them.  Oddly enough, they worked fine for
so many miles that I can't recall their total life.

I always carry a new joint, grease, boots, and the tools to install it.
Never had to do a single one on the road.  They always give plenty of
warning before taking their last bow.

> How can I tell which ones are the best? The boots were still intact on my
> parts bus but they all had minor to major rips on my westy.

The only way is to clean and visually inspect them.  Minor pitting is OK,
but major galling warrants replacement.  Few used CVs are perfect, so
don't reject a CV for a little pit here or there.

? Also the Bentley
> says to use a press to get them off  do I need a press or is this something
> I need to take to a mechanic that has one?

You don't need a press.  If you're lucky, the joint will just slip off of
the splines.  Normally, though, it just needs a little persuasion.
Support the inner hub of the CV with the jaws of a vice, then use a brass
drift and tap the axle out of the CV.  Be sure to have something soft
under the axle, like your foot.  The brass drift is important, as you
don't want to dent the axle.

To reinstall, you don't need the drift, but you do need a brass hammer.

Before you tackle the job, buy five rolls of paper towels and a box of
disposable gloves.  You'll thank me later!

George Lyle
