From: rcaviator(-at-)webtv.net (Timo in  Hawaii)
Date: Mon, 27 Mar 2006 20:41:52 -1000
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Type 1 Engine in a Type 4 Bus

Hello Courtney and All, regarding your question: I have done this swap
and it is not hard it works well. I swapped a dual-port 1600cc into a
1977 bus with a cooked engine. I had a new longblock in my old '69 with
430,000 miles on it and didn't want to sink money into the 2 liter,
given that parts were 3 times the cost. I used the stock rear "moustache
bar" mount and tin,and the two pieces of the original '77 rear engine
mount that bolt to the body, not the crossbar. I hung the engine with
the mustache bar and rubber mounts and welded a plate to the '77
brackets to bolt the other end of the rubber mounts to. I actually used
the original pieces from a '69 cut off, ground to fit and welded on,
saved some fabrication time. Make sure you level the engine to the body
before marking where it should be welded. If your not into originality
or just can't afford the big fiberglass piece to fill the gap, you can
beat bown or cut off the hump on the left of the '77 engine compartment
and screw  the top tin off an old '68-'71 threshold plate in the gap.
Then the early engine compartment seal can be used. I had two small
pieces of sheetmetal made to fill the gap on the sides over the valve
covers. Use cardboard to make a template. I like this better than having
that big hunk of fiberglass or tin hanging off the engine....and an
original engine mount.  I'm sure the 2 litr engine would have had more
zip, but I was used to 1600cc and it worked just
fine........................... BTW I wanted to mention to any on this
list who live on Hawaii that I am selling new tune-up and repair
supplies for early air cooled VWs and also have some good used and NOS
stuff as well. I also do troubleshooting and media blasting. I can be
reached at 808-887-2027 or email me with your
needs.................................. ALSO, some of you have asked
about renting a VW bus on these islands. I recently found out there are
several companies doing it. Do a search on "Westfalia Rental Hawaii"
they mostly rent Vanagon campers. I met a couple touring the Big Island
in one and they recommended it heartily. Of course, I tell people to
ship a van you want to sell over here, and vacation in it. Then sell it
when you leave...IF you leave! :^) Feel free to ask any questions,
aloha, Timo
