Date: Tue, 28 Mar 2006 18:34:53 -0800
From: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
Subject: Exhaust-like noise coming from an engine with brand new heads

Because of what appeared to be a sticky exhaust valve problem (#3 had about
80# compared to 120-125# in 1, 2, & 4), I dropped the 1600 DP engine in my '71
Bus last weekend and stuck on some new heads as well as a new muffler (plus
new gaskets all around).  My torque wrench is approaching 30 years old and was
a cheapie when I bought it so I usually just get around the correct range
according to the needle and then give it a skooch more.  This time tested
philosophy may have failed me for once.

Immediately upon starting the Bus the very first time after reinserting the
engine, it was clear that I now had an exhaust leak-like sound coming, I
believe, from the right side.  My first guess was that I didn't mate the
heater boxes or the muffler to the heads correctly but as far as I can see,
they look fine and the few accessible nuts seem tight.  The second guess, and
far more serious (and costly and embarrassing), is that I had exceeded the
22#-23# torque maximums on the head nuts and so the very first time the engine
cranked over, a crack developed in the brand new heads.  My torque wrench only
shows values of about 10 foot-pounds increments so I really am guessing when I
do the 7#/15#/22#-23# step up sequence when torquing the head nuts.  Maybe I
went way overboard on at least one nut.  Dunno...

The simple fixes didn't make a difference.  Valve clearances have been checked
and rechecked and though I've had to do some adjustments, the noise always
starts right up immediately upon ignition. Compression is now 125# all around.
Spark plugs have been pulled and reinserted without any change.

The odd thing is that after the Bus has warmed up, the noise essentially goes
away both at idle and under load.  What was a PUT - PUT - PUT - PUT... sound
develops into a lovely, smooth, balls-on spec song of the VW Bus.  But start
the engine up cold, and we're back to cringing and hand wringing.

Any ideas?  Does the fact that the noise goes away after 5 or 10 minutes mean
anything?  I would think that if it was a cracked head, the noise would be
louder when the engine heated up and expanded (wishful thinking?).  But maybe
the expansion is closing off the leak?  And what would be the downside risk of
driving this Bus until I get the funds and the time together to drop the
engine again and replace whatever part has gone bad?

I'm just sick about what happened because it might have been totally my fault.
The only good side of this is that Sears is going to sell me a top-of-the-line
torque wrench in the next few days and as you well know, new tools always put
a smile on one's face.


Nick
nickpace(-at-)rand.org




--------------------

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies
of the original message.
