Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Wed, 29 Mar 2006 10:56:48 -0800
To: "Dolan, Steven" <Steven.Dolan(-at-)bea.gov>
Subject: Re: [T2] Question on Horn wiring, 1973

On Mar 29, 2006, at 10:41 AM, Dolan, Steven wrote:

> What I need to know is if this wire at the horn is the one that  
> appears
> at the base of the steering cover tube or is the wire that goes up the
> center of the steering shaft?

Isn't the horn wiring the same from 68-early 74 even though the  
steering box changed?

http://www.type2.com/library/suspens/sterhorn.htm

"Two: in a 68-71 bus, the electrical circuit for the horn is as  
follows: the hot wire (yellow and black) comes from the brake switch  
line or somewhere straight from the fuse block (depending on year),  
goes to one terminal on the horn - have been told that some horns  
prefer one terminal over the other to be hot - and the wire on the  
other terminal (brown) connects to a spade lug on the underside of  
the steering column, under the bus. You can just see it, above the  
steering box, in the front (Front Is Front). There also is a rubber  
seal in this area that insulates the column from the rest of the car.  
Don't worry about it now; the gist of this is that the column is now  
"seeking" ground, but is isolated.
The horn button is the key - underneath the button is a ring of tin  
or something; below is another ring, this one of copper. When you  
push the horn button, you are pressing these two together momentarily  
and BEEEEP because attached to that FIRST ring is a wire, the  
notorious 'horn won't shut off' wire. This travels down the center of  
the hollow steering column (itself travelling down the center of the  
hollow steering tube) and connects to the bolts that hold that little  
rubber coupling twixt box and column. Convoluted, no? It gets worse.

PAY ATTENTION AND SAVE YERSELF TWO DAYS OF LYING UNDER YOUR BUS  
REDOING STUFF! AMHIK!

That wire from the horn button, which travels down the steering  
column, MUST go THROUGH the hole in the center of the rubber coupling  
disk, and be attached to the bolts on the STEERING BOX side of the  
coupling - this bushing is basically what isolates the steering  
schmeck from the rest of the car; when you push the horn button, you  
are completing the ground circuit thru the bolt and then thru the  
steering box to the frame. If you connect that wire to the steering  
COLUMN side, it ain't gonna work. Bentley does not tell you this.  
Muir does not tell you this. Archives didn't mention it. Bob Hoover  
didn't know. Clymer, Chilton, nope. Which is silly, coz its the most  
import thing here.

When your horn won't shut off, its because that wire is grounding to  
the column somewhere. Which is analogous to connecting the wire to  
the wrong side of that bushing!"

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
