From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <ubunet(-at-)comcast.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Jun 2004 20:53:21 -0500
Subject: fuel injector cleaning

>Date: Mon, 28 Jun 2004 18:13:38 +0000
>From: ubunet(-at-)comcast.net
>Subject: RE: [T2] Injector Rebuilder?
>
>That Cruzin Performance place charges twelve bucks for cleaning,
not counting shipping. What I'm wondering is, >wouldn't it be
about the same to just buy a couple bottles of fuel injector
cleaner and cycle it through with a spare fuel >pump or something
for a few hours? Or do they actually take it apart and do
something special with it?

I am not getting a commission from CruzinPerformance. I had my
injectors worked on by them. They do not "rebuild" injectors. They
have the equipment that does way more than "just buy a couple
bottles of fuel injector cleaner and cycle it through with a spare
fuel pump or something for a few hours". They test the injectors
before and after their cleaning process. They provide you with
these results. Studying this data is very important. You must have
a reasonably matched set of injectors for best performance. e.g.
if you have one really "lean" low flow injector compared to the
other injectors, you risk running that cylinder too hot and
burning a valve. They replace the internal fuel injector fuel
filter. They install new pintel caps. (Improtant for flow pattern
and tight O-ring seal on intake manifold.) They clean the
injectors with special solvents using many different flow
pressures and opening and closing speeds. They test the spray
pattern. They test the volume output under different parameters.
They do way way more than you can do with a jury rigged Rube
Goldberg home made setup. Their cost is well worth it. They owner
is super polite; he very patiently and thoroughly answered all my
questions. And the service is super fast, except that you must
call first to arrange shipping according to his work load. I
suggest that you send in a couple of more injectors than just the
four you need. That way, if one of your original 4 injectors fails
or is too far away in performance than the rest, he can try to
make you a matched set using the extra injectors you sent .

Please check out his web page for more info.

> http://www.cruzinperformance.com/
