From: "Christopher M. Gause" <ubunet(-at-)comcast.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 29 Jun 2004 21:33:16 -0700
Subject: Pertronix I VS. Pertronix II Plus misc. questions. 

Hey hey, has anybody upgraded from a Pertronix to a Pertronix 2? Does
the upgrade seem worth the extra money? Is it even a noticeable
differance in a daily driver? Is their a budget brand of electronic
ignition that comes close to being as good? Or a brand that's not much
more thats MUCH better than Pertronix? What about those Double Spark
units Pertonix sells (second strike)? Does the Flamethrower (or any
other brand) coil really help much? And finally, those quad point spark
plugs, do they do any good in a Baywindow? 
 
On a different note, does anyone have or know of any sites with either
pic's or instructions on installing a gas pedal into a BayWindow?  Now
that the engine runs, I'm gonna need a gas pedal too.  Yep, PO's removed
the gas pedal, for parts I'm assuming. 
 
Onto plug wires. Do FLAPS tend to carry the right type of spark plug
wires for Bays? Or does one need to order them online? And do the wires
you get at FLAPS come with the air seals, or do you add those on
seperately? 
 
Tabs expired in 97, and I'm assuming hasn't run since at least then. My
fuel lines were shot (already replaced it all), all my body rubber is
hard and cracking, Gonna do the Valve adjusting soon as I get it timed
up, planning a "5 minute engine flush" and switching over to synthetic
oil (is that a good idea btw?),  I'm planning on replacing the brake
lines, anything else that ya'll can think of that needs doing after
sitting that long? Other than a THOROUGH cleaning that is. :) 
 
<<for Seattlites>> Is schaffners a Used parts only place, or do they
carry new stuff too? Any recomendations for GOOD places in town for VW
stuff? I could just use the phone book, but I would prefer to goto
someplace that people have recomended. I'm in South Seattle btw. Just up
from Southcenter on Pacific Hwy, so the closer the better. :) 
 
Cheers
Chris
'76 Sage Green/White "TROLL" ('couse you have to use fire, or it'll keep
coming back to life)
www.monkeybones.net/76bus  ((ghetto notepad page for now))
