From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 13 Jun 2007 18:54:35 -0600
Subject: BAD PART WRITEUP

A warning to all,

 

This concerns a recently hastily researched and purchased item. A '74-'79
replacement turn signal switch from CIP1. Not a very cool part. There were
several major issues.

 

This was installed on a '78 Westfalia Deluxe.

 

1. One of the plastic wire holders was too short and wouldn't clip into the
dimmer half. I just used the Original holders and it went fine.

 

2. There are extra wires that are for the rare Champagne Edition wiper
assembly. They control the intermittent wiper option. Just leave them in the
loom, and ignore them. There are no female prongs on the column's wiring
harness, but the wires fit into the factory plug.

 

3. The seating tab DOES NOT line up with the notch on the wiper switch side.
This means you have to wedge the seating tab under the plastic column cover,
just left of the factory notch. Not impossible but a PITA. This one makes no
sense at all how the manufacturer missed this one.

 

4. There are no WIPE/WASH markings on the top of the remanufactured wiper
arm, so it is obvious that it has been replaced. This is more annoying and
unnecessary if anything.

 

5. The worst of all. The rivets which hold down the dimmer assembly on the
new switch were NOT BELOW THE PROTECTIVE PLASTIC CASTING. This results in
the horn blaring every time you hit the dimmer switch. Solution, high
strength epoxy over the rivets to protect them from hitting the horn ring
when you hit the high-beams.

 

6. The screw holes were not in alignment, which made me have to slightly
ream out the holes. Probably bent my screws a little too.

 

In short, DON'T BUY THIS ITEM (which I rarely say)

 

You get what you pay for, $24.99, and I sure did. Sheepishly said...

 

BUY THIS ONE FROM BUSDEPOT instead for $71.79. Ron doesn't sell crap.

 

http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=211953519G

 

Now I have to spend over a hundred bucks because of a bad part and bad
research

 

 

Jon Stiles

Metro Denver, CO

'68 Double Cab "Sgt. Pepper"

'78 Westy "CamperJack"
