From: "Dave Kinerson" <dkinerson(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 13 Jun 2007 22:18:18 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Blaupunkt radio polarity

> >(You've got one in your tool box for testing the Fuel Injection haven't
> >you?) set it to it's lowest Ohms scale, short the probes and adjust the
> >Ohms adjustment for zero ohms.  Make sure the radio is turned off.  
>
> Thanks for the info. Speaking of ohms...is it not ok to turn the radio on
without a speaker connected? I read this warning on a 356 radio webpage but
don't know if it still applies to radios made after 1965?
>


Richard,

For the Ohm Meter tests that we have been discussing, where the radio is on
the bench disconnected from the van's wiring, leaving the speaker
disconnected is OK.  However, when powering the radio up on a 12 volt
battery, it is a very good idea to connect the speaker first.  I
specifically had you ensure that the radio was off initially to isolate the
protective diode for testing.  The diode is generally connected directly
between the +12 volt connector and chassis ground and is not "turned off"
by the power switch.  Turn off the switch and the meter sees only the parts
connected directly to the power connector.  Turn it on, and the meter sees
the entire radio.  Sorta like plugging in fuses one by one, in an attempt
to find a short circuit in your van's wiring.

Transistor radios of the 60's did tend to be quite sensitive to incorrect
"loads".  By "load" I mean the speaker, which often are either 4 or 8 Ohms.
Although engineers of the mid 60's had figured out protective circuits for
shorted speaker wires or a missing speaker, it is safest to connect the
speaker first.  The fact that the radio is a good German Blaupunkt product,
and likely an after market item with a good profit margin, chances are very
good that those costly protective circuits are present.  But it is best to
cover one's b***, if you know what I mean!

Vanagon Dave
Albany NY
1981 West
