Date: Thu, 14 Jun 2007 11:02:25 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: I AM GOING TO wimper.!!!!!!! or cry

Accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:
> try again and gas is pouring out of tailpipe???  looked and when cranking
> fuel presure goes to 30+ but immediately drops to zero when I stop.  huh?

This is long:

Ok.. here's where I'd stop and do some MAJOR sanity checks.  Looks like 
fuel is a problem, however, I'd still verify that spark is working 
correctly.

So, if this were me, I'd pull off the injector connectors and just let 
them sit for now - no need for more fuel.  I would then take the spark 
plugs off, disconnect the coil power (don't need any sparks) and crank 
it a bunch to let the fuel out of the cylinders because it sounds like 
there's way too much fuel in the system.  I would probably blow 
pressurized air in the exhaust system to get as much of the fuel vapor 
out of the exhaust system because if that ignites... yikes, that might 
be bad - take another break to let things air out.  If you have a 
battery charger, might want to throw a charge on the battery if it's 
starting to run low from all the cranking... or just continue below 
because it'll probably take a while anyways...

Next I would verify that TDC 1 is actually the firing position for 1. 
While things may not have changed drastically, doesn't hurt to check. 
Here are the instructions as quoted from the "librarian":

"Unless you are Superman or otherwise possessed of X-ray vision the only 
way to determine when a long-block or other unknown engine is at TDC for 
#1 is to remove the right-hand valve cover and rotate the engine until 
you see the #1 intake valve close.  Once you have seen that valve close 
then rotate the engine another 180 degrees and align the timing mark 
with zero and you will be close to TDC for #1."

Next remove the distributor and check the timing gear and make sure it's 
aligned correctly per the bentley.  Next, put the distributor back in, 
and the rotor should be pointing towards the passenger tail-light (back 
right).

Next I'd check the valves again!  make sure they're adjusted perfectly. 
  Go one cylinder at a time, get it perfect.  Maybe even double check. 
I think this is important because you've now verified that the 
distributor is correct so it's probably just a good idea to verify that 
the valves are correct.  Adjust per bentley procedure, I think hydros 
use 1.5 turns past contact.

Do a compression test.  As long as you have at least 100 in each 
cylinder you should at least be able to run.

Hook up fuel pressure tester.

Put the distributor cap back on, and connect the coil to the cap and 
connect your points to the coil.  Now, what I'd do is I'd verify that 
spark is working.  I'd probably start by cranking the engine (with plugs 
still removed) and hook up the timing light to the coil plug, then up to 
each spark plug wire and make sure you're getting a clean spark.  Do 
this with the plugs off so that the engine can rotate easily and 
smoothly.  Do you get good spark at all plugs.  I would then verify 
spark at each plug by hooking up a plug in the spark plug wire and 
cranking while touching each plug to the case.

now check fuel pressure.  Is it still holding pressure after all of that 
cranking?  If not, you got a leaky injector!  Pull off injectors to see 
which one's bad.

Now I'd reconnect the EFI *EXCEPT* the injectors!!!  Connect both double 
relay plugs, resistor pack, temp sensor 2, afm, coil trigger to negative 
terminal (same as coil), throttle valve switch (if you have one), 
grounds, LEAVE OFF COLD START VALVE, aux air regulator, thermo time switch.

Crank the engine with a test light on each injector plug.  They should 
blink when the injector fires.  If it doesn't, well, then you know the 
brain is bad.  I'd be surprised if this was the case.  Report if there's 
no injector signal.

Now, put plugs back in after things have aired out, connect wires; 
Firing order is 1-4-3-2 and the rotor spins clockwise.  Do another quick 
check that the correct plug is going to fire when the rotor rotates 
clockwise.

3   2

4   1

1 and 2 are crossed, 3 and 4 aren't.  I'm sure you know this stuff, but 
we're just doing major sanity checks here ;) do NOT connect injector plugs.

Hook up timing light again, make sure every wire is triggering a spark. 
  Sanity check here.

Ok, now, here is where I'd really determine that we have spark and 
compression.  I'd spray a short puff of starting fluid in the intake and 
see if it starts.  It should just run briefly and die.  I'd probably do 
this a few times just to make me feel good that everything's running ok. 
  If it doesn't kick over, then let us know.

Next I'd probably hook up the injectors, leaving off the cold-start for 
the time being (don't need too much extra fuel) and try a couple times 
watching the fuel pressure.  Does it kick at all?  If the pressure 
doesn't hold, then I'd wonder if an injector is getting stuck open so 
I'd probably crank a couple times and then watch the pressure and make 
sure it holds.  It should at least kick by now.. if not, let us know.  I 
can't really think of anything else offhand.. if I do, I'll letcha know!

GOOD LUCK!!!!!!!!!!!
mike
