Date: Thu, 14 Jun 2007 13:49:39 -0700
From: "zach drew" <zachula(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Jason Meyer" <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Steering Pivot Pin Replacement

I assume you are dealing with a 70's bay

My bus came with a kit I guess the PO did most of the detective work for me.
This is the kit from BD I think its like 30 bucks from them.
http://www.busdepot.com/details.jsp?partnumber=211498171A

A couple of the aircooled shops up here in seattle also had them in stock.

Theres a tool you can rent for pulling the bushings.   Not sure how
well it works and I forgot who you rent it from.   Rental is like 150
deposit and 75 bucks for the rental or something like that....

I made my own using all-thread and some hardened washers and some
large impact wrench sockets.  I did not take enough pictures for me to
show you what it looked like.  Basically I found some washers that
were smaller than the diameter of the tube but large enough to hang up
on the bushings.  I had to jam one of the nuts to keep the allthread
from turning in both nuts.  I took one of the bushings from the kit
with me when I made my tool so I could get my measurements right.


This was NOT an easy job.  It took me hours to do it but I did do it.
I put the front of my bus up on a pair of 2 ton jackstands.  Took me a
few minutes to get the old pin out.  Took about 2 hours to pull the
bushings.  About 30 minutes to put it all back together and press in
the new bushings.

TIP- be careful putting the bushings back in.   Its really easy to get
them in there all cocked.  I almost blew my bushings but I was going
slow and was able to correct the problem before it got too serious.


Its not that its hard or excessively difficult.....its just the
positioning....laying on your back, arms up infront of you and pulling
those bushings through this method is very hard and requires
application of large amounts of torque and or the BFH.

Let me tell you though....I also lubed the front end at this time so
the next time I drove my bus....it was Sweet As....I felt like the man
as a sailed down the road driving the straight and narrow!   Then I
noticed the play in my steering box and the cracks in my damper.....if
it ain't one thing its another :-).

You can do it, just plan it all out and make sure you're set up to
work on it for about 5 hours.  YMMV and good luck.

It was worth the effort.

-Zach
75 Riviera - "A Bus Named Surely"
