Date: Fri, 15 Jun 2007 21:16:41 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] failure 

Damn! This is frustrating me - I can only imagine what
you're going through!

You don't need to check the cht sensor while running.
It's about 2400 ohms resistance at about room
temperature. Very wide latitude on the "abouts." If
you checked while running you'd be checking voltage
and I don't know what you'd be looking for - never
done it that way.

Anyway, with all the stuff I speculated on, if it
doesn't fire with starting fluid, it's got other
problems. Have you actually put your hand over the
intake - like remove the "S" hose at the TB end
andwith the throttle wide open, put your hand over it
and crank the engine to see how much suck it's got
(even though you're about to thinking it really
sucks!) it's a really basic thing to check. You have
numerous times said compression is good. If you're
like me, you might be saying that because you believe
it to be true, even though you haven't actually
checked since the problem... (maybe?)(I realize that
seems like an insult but not intended to be)
 If it has spark and it has fuel(the starter fluid) if
it has compression and thus vacuum, it's gonna pop at
ya if the timing is wrong, or it's gonna run if the
timing is right. 

By "chugging" I mean that when an engine is so rich
that it is borderline to being able to run at all, it
"chugs" like you can hear each individual firing -
sounds kinda like an old steam locomotive starting
out. It is always accompanied by black smoke, as in
smoke-screen density.

Did you ever figure out how all the gasoline got into
the exhaust? It would seem that an injector would have
to be just dumping fuel in continuously to do that. I
have had a cold start injector stick open.

Have you tried disabling the fuel pump so you know you
have zero rail pressure, then try the starter fluid?
That experiment would indicate whether there is a
situation wherein it's putting way too much fuel in
(due to what reason doesn't matter just yet) and if
that is the case, adding ether will not cause it to
fire (already too rich) By taking away the injection
altogether, even removing the white wire from the coil
(it IS on the same terminal as the wire from the
points/condensor?) if it still will not fire on start
fluid, then you have at least apparently eliminated a
too-rich injection scenario and can concentrate on
compression, vacuum and spark. - BaH

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
