From: "Sage Green" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 04 Jun 2003 14:19:07 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Rear Window Defogger Grid

Hey, Mark...

I have a sand blasted etching on the outside of the rear window.  It is of 
the VW Crying Bus (on the left side of the window)  and five dancing bears 
across the lower center, dancing away from the Crying Bus to  a profile of 
Jerry Garcia, on the right.


I did some modifications to the dancing bears, and to Jerry Garcia's  'in 
memoriam'  profile, but the Crying Bus (tearbus) is a very near perfect 
duplicate of the chalk drawing, with all  (ALL !! ) the nuances of the 
original.  It came out SUPER ! !

I found someone I Alexandria VA who could cut a mat to the detail I wanted, 
and he sand blasted the scene on THREE windows I had.

Two windows are still as they came from the artist, but the third window I 
have used for the past 5 years in my '78 Westy.

By 'used', I mean that I have filled the sand blasted pictures with paint, 
so the pictures show up nicely.

This is the season for refreshing my paint job, so I pulled the rear window 
(and replaced it with a blank rear widow; did it with out assistance, and 
reused the 5 year old rubber, which is still like new), took the rear window 
to my FLAT work bench and commenced to extract the remaining paint 'orphan' 
pieces from the rear window.


Well, some small sand blasted groves would just NOT give up the paint.  I 
tried Acetone, Paint thinner, GOOF OFF, and some real old paint remover.


Nothing worked!!


So I took a BLOW TORCH to the paint (on the outside of the window).  The 
paint bubbled and spread (within the groves of the sand blasted outlines) 
but I could NOT get the paint out..  Some times the paint would melt, and I 
could wipe the paint with a rag, but it smeared all over the flat glass.


However, what I DID do was BURN THE TINT FILM that was on the other side of 
the glass, on the inside of the glass window!!!

The TINT FILM, the size of a quarter, was burned/melted, so I had to pull 
the full sheet of window tint off the window, and clean up the glue.  The 
GOOF OFF worked well here, but of course I used a razor blade to do the 
final scraping, and I just wiped out the whole grid (so I expect).  But 
pulling the tint film from the rear window kind of left me with the belief 
that I had damaged the grid, anyway.


Well, another window with solid grid lines would be good, but I have three 
extra windows as is... (Two with sand blasted etchings, and one plain)  I 
just want to reconstruct the grid on the one window I believe I removed, 
because it has one of the the sand blasting on it.

I could take out of the other two sand blasted windows, and use one of them, 
  [I selected all three  BEFORE I had them sand blasted for their good grid 
lines]  but I really do not want to 'use' the other two.  They are really 
pieces you could hang on the wall.  And someone might want to do what I did, 
or what ever they want.  I just don't want to 'use' the other two.


Thanks for listening.


Hey, the Bealeton [Virginia] Air Show sounds GREAT!!  I have always wanted 
to go.  Isn't this the VW theme show??  Is discrete drinking allowed, or do 
I have to get my fill before I enter the grounds??

http://www.flyingcircusairshow.com/schedule.html

Sunday, June 29, 2003

Barry Burneskis
Springfield VA




>From: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
>To: honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com
>Subject: Re: [T2] Rear Window Defogger Grid
>Date: Wed, 4 Jun 2003 09:30:13 EDT
>
>Hello Barry   I should have some of these rear windows that are good I'll
>sell it to you or trade  Shipping would be a chance. Could bring to a 
>campout or
>show. next show up your way is june 28 bealaton Air show . Later and have 
>fun
>Mark Dearing
