From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'rob coerver'" <iamdonquixote(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 20 Mar 2011 18:45:11 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] music in your bus?

Hey Rob,



I was thinking something like the set up you have, rather than the one you
suggest. If you get a car stereo, like you suggest, wouldnt it have to be
visible to be able to control it? I know they have remotes for them-but  I
never understood the remote usefulness. Dont you have to have line of sight
for the remote to work? If it worked on RF, so you could keep the stereo
hidden all the time, that would be nice.



My bus is not a walk-thru, so Im not really sure where I could put the
radio and keep it hidden, but also be able to control it. That was why I was
thinking just an amp, with a jack to hook up some music source. Then I just
have to have an on/off switch up front, and then control it from my music
source(ipod or equivalent)



Maybe If I got a stereo,  I could mount it vertically behind the drivers
seat. Before I took my bus apart-I had a small shelf there, as that was part
of the EZ-camper thing, I cut a couple slots in the shelf, and put pouches
in to store my maps. But I could maybe make a larger slot, and put a radio
in there.



The thing that sounds good about your setup, is everything is hidden, except
for a < jack. I was not thinking of getting a separate equalizer, but maybe
that is necessary if you just use an amp. Is that right?



I like the idea of self-contained speaker boxesIm going to think about
that. Although up front, Id probably like to mount them in the doors. But
making a couple self contained boxes for the rear, that way I could move
them around depending on where I was, and what I was doing. This also cuts
out trying to run hidden wires everywhere behind the panels.



Thanks for the ideas.



-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi - EZ-Camper



From: rob coerver [mailto:iamdonquixote(-at-)gmail.com]
Subject: Re: [VB] music in your bus?



Kevin,

Here is what I did on my 67' westy.  In the jumpseat I put an 4 channel
amplifier and a equalizer.  I just run a 1/4 jack to from there to the front
of the bus.  I put a lighted switch next to the heater control under the
driver's seat.  This way I can listen to music with the ignition switch off
and the lighted switch reminds me that I have the amplifier on.   I have two
(2) 6x9 speakers in self contained boxes and two small 2-way speakers.  The
6x9 have speaker wires that run from the rear seat (Z-bed) so they are
usually on the floor there and the other speakers sit on the jump seat or
can be mounted.  This way I can stash the speakers under the rear seat and
jump seat so the bus looks like no stereo is installed.

That said, my setup is complicated so here is what I would do differently.

Instead of the amplifier I would simply buy a car stereo and mount it under
the jump seat.  The car stereos have better eq than my setup and also have
cool new features like remote control, the ability to stream music from a
bluetooth device, integrated Ipod support , usb input to play mp3's directly
, HD radio, satellite radio etc etc.   Its amazing all the features ( or
crap YMMV ) you can get for < $200 .   You could mount an antena somewhere
hidden, have a decent radio, and a 1/4 jack for a music player, and a remote
control so you wouldn't ever have to look at the unit itself.  You could
have the lighted switch or perhaps the remote control could turn the unit on
and off.  You just buy one of those housings or build one out of wood ;-)
for the unit,  I recomend a DIN 1 since they are smaller and you won't be
using the unit control really.

 I ran a fused line directly from the battery so there is power there all
the time for camping.  I mostly listen to music when parked anyway.  In my
setup the volume is controlled by the mp3 player.

here is a typical sterero "head" unit you could buy with all the bells and
whistles:
http://www.onlinecarstereo.com/CarAudio/p_25434_Dual_XHD7714.aspx

here is the 6x9 speaker enclosures,  buy a decent pair of 6x9 speakers.
http://www.hifisoundconnection.com/Shop/Control/Product/fp/vpid/2816642/vpcs
id/0/SFV/30046

for a second set of "front" speakers, I bould some self containted metal
ones that I can't find a link to,  again, I think a wood worker like you
could make some handsome enclosures for a 3.5" two or three way speakers
same for the 6x9's I guess.


If you want help wiring things up, email me since I'm in the area.

Rob
