From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc.'" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>,
Date: Sun, 20 Mar 2011 19:30:12 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] was soundproofing, now insulating....

I started putting the panels in today. I am in a bit of a mental bind. I had
started making the panels about ten years ago. I got a good chunk of them
built, then ran into issues that had a higher priority. So the roof panels
and some of the side panels never got remade. Originally I used Baltic Birch
ply. It has yellowed considerably over time(I believe because of the oil
base polyurethane I used). Although the yellowing varies based on how much
sun the panels got.

Now I am continuing the construct, and I got some maple, as the Baltic Birch
didn't come in 4x8 sheets, which was the size I needed for the roof panels.
I thought the Maple would be close enough-but it looks very different,
especially since the birch has yellowed so much. Also those roof panels have
a bigger curve than I thought, they were tough to get in. I'll be posting
pics soon of the struggle to get them to bend.

I may need to redo some of them, I am not liking how they look-they look
really white. I feel like I can either remake the old ones-so everything
yellows together, or remake the ones I made this weekend, but out of
Birch-that way I know that they will yellow the same eventually.

I may get some 4x8 bending birch , and  redo them...kind of sucks, I lost a
weekend on this wood....damn I'm frustrated...

I don't think I'll mess with damplifier in the fresh air duct...I will have
some 'after' sound levels with my meter. I'm not sure exactly how to safely
get readings with the meter. I'll need to read the manual again on how to
use the meter. Any suggestions? I don't think my wife will really feel it is
a good use of her time to drive around with me to test sound levels in the
bus.

Been a long day....

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi - EZ-Camper


-----Original Message-----
From: C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc. [mailto:c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net] 
Sent: Sunday, March 20, 2011 12:45 PM
To: Kevin Guarnotta; type2(-at-)type2.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] was soundproofing, now insulating....

Wow,

Lookin' Good Kevin.

I even put a piece of damplifier inside of my fresh air duct. Be sure not to

interfere with the diverter mechanism.

Get some before and after sound levels if you can.

All that damplifier should provide some corrosion resistance as moisture 
will  not be able to reach the body metal.

Chris
