Date: Fri, 22 Apr 2011 08:00:48 +0700
From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, veewee111(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] re:Music in your bus

On Fri, Apr 22, 2011 at 5:28 AM, Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:

> It seems my options with this thing is to leave it hot all the time-which
 leaves the display on showing the clock all the time. This way I can listen
 to my radio when the bus is off. I like the idea of listening to the radio
 when the bus is off, not so keen on the clock being on all the time.

Why not? Keeping the clock powered up means the time will be right.
Also it keeps your radio stations in memory.

> Alternatively I follow E&B advice, hook it up the correct way, then the
 radio only works when the bus is on, and the clock only displays when the
 bus is on as well. I guess the radio is still drawing a little power for
 memory, but probably a lot less than if the clock was also displayed.

The LED power draw is minimal.

> I guess I wonder how much battery drain is there with the clock on. I
 imagine it can't be much-as most modern cars have something similar, don't
 they?

It's about the condition of your battery and how often you drive the
bus. If your battery is on the way out, you will not be able to crank
the engine after about a week of not driving the bus. But if your
battery is that marginal, it means you only have about 3 or 4 chances
to try to start the bus before it won't crank anymore. On a good
battery, I've come back after a month of not driving and still been
able to start the engine. I've had a bus before, too, with a battery
cut off switch. It was just inside the engine lid as a ground
interrupter, so it was really convenient, and also good security
against theft.

> I guess I was hoping to listen to the radio with the bus off for a few
 reasons, one of which is the fact that the radio comes with a RF remote
 control. I was imagining myself lying in bed, listening to the radio, while
 reading or something. Then turning the radio off when I want to go to sleep.

That's the real reason why cars only allow the radio to work when the
ignition is on because people listen to the radio with the engine not
running, and then run the battery down and can't start the engine
later. And using a points and coil ignition, you don't have the option
to turn the key on without the motor running because you will fry your
coil.

John
