To: type2(-at-)type2.com,FullMoon(-at-)hville.net
Date: Fri, 22 Nov 2002 23:31:57 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: rollin' rollin' rollin' got that bus a rollin'

well, my bus is finally rolling again... and i dont hear the droning
noise!!! WOO HOO! of coarse that could be just because the CV joints are
fully greased now, muffling the noise. the bearings in one joint were
very nasty looking, so i will have to replace that soon :(  so... after
10 days without a wheel and replacing just about EVERYTHING on it, i
finally have my bus back!! YAY!!! 

(long, slightly humorous version)
i was going to just do the bearings, but i had to remove the half shaft
so i figured i would repack the CV joints... one boot was torn, so i
decided to replace that, too... so here i am with inner and outer wheel
bearings and a new boot, ready to go... start dissasembly wednesday last
week... got the outer grease seal out, the c-clip and that spacer outside
the outer bearings. started to remove the 6 bolts on either end of the
drive shaft when ONE damn bolt wouldnt let go (at this point, my ex is
doing most of the work... i am feeding him while he catches up on his
bills, the least he can do it work on my car!) well, he stripped out the
head on it (hex nut, not the star type that came with the new boots) so i
cut a slit into it with my dremel so we could try using a screwdriver...
still no go... i was about to cut the head off when i decided to call a
local shop *Der German Imports* and ask if they could get the bolt out if
i cut the head off and bring it to them... he said dont do that, use vice
grips, so i borrowed my dad's (my mom said i might get some for christmas
as often as i borrow his) and asked his advice... i know, very hazardous,
but worth a try... and he suggested something i had thought of earlier
but discounted, thinking "would that REALLY make that much
difference?"... well, it did... i put the other 5 bolts back on,
tightened them down and used the vice grips to loosen the stuck one...
VOILA!!!! i was SO proud of myself for getting this bolt off when my ex
couldnt make it budge! so i decided to continue without his help and show
him up... that is when i got confused. muir and bentley BOTH told me to
remove the brake backing plate. my dad came by to see what kind of tool i
needed to borrow to get a c-clip off the end of the half shaft so i could
replace the boot. that's when he tried to help me figure out what to do
next... i showed him where muir said to place a piece of wood on the
shaft and hammer it toward the inside of the bus... so he proceeded to do
so... couldnt find any wood hard enough at my house, so he said he would
be right back (after going home to get some wood and a big hammer)... and
he did. after demolishing some very strong wood, he pulled some boards
off some wooden pallets i had and smashed those to bits too, but hey...
IT FINALLY CAME OUT! YAY! that sucker was STUCK! it looked like we were
missing something. once that was out, he removed the inner race and
bearings from the outer bearings and the middle spacer. he said we were
in over our heads and that he would come back friday (his day off) to
help finish as he was still on his lunch break and had to get back to
work. i tried to explain how you guys had made it sound simple the rest
of the way, and it pretty much was... except for the C clip... but he was
convinced it was going to be a HUGE ordeal. it really wasnt that bad
after the shaft was out.

the rest was relatively uneventful and i didnt really get to even touch
anything once my dad got here and started "helping". i was looking
forward to doing it myself, but i am glad he did it. he did a MUCH better
job cleaning everything than i ever would have done. he is so anally
thorough! anyway, he told me i NEEDED to replace the brake shoes, and i
NEEDED what is called a brake cylinder (he reiterated this SEVERAL times,
to which i was tempted to say "in MY world, we call it a WHEEL cylinder!"
but i was a good girl and held my tongue). he told me "while we have the
brake line open, might as well replace the hose... and the adjustors...
and this boot is old and cracked... instead of going through all this
later, do it all now... so my wheel bearing job (which i bought parts for
a month ago) turned into a total wheel rebuild that caused me to spend
money i LITERALLY didn't have to spend... i tried to explain that to him,
and he was so determined to do it all while we were there that he did the
UNSPEAKABLE... HE GAVE ME THE MONEY!!! now i know none of you know my
dad, so let me give you a clue... he HATES my bug and has always been
against me owning one... even before i remember even WANTING one! i
thought they were neat, but wouldnt have said "i want a beetle" if you
asked what kind of car i wanted... when i moved to PHX in 91, he wouldnt
put the 85 jetta in my name because he KNEW i was going to sell it and
buy a "piece of junk VW"... not sure where he ever got that in his
head... GLAD IT CAME TRUE, THOUGH! lol! he said "if you are in a front
end collision, there is nothing, no engine to protect you... ironically,
he seemed rather relieved when he saw my bus... i was afraid to point out
that there is NOTHING in front of my feet but a single thin sheet of
metal... he also didnt seem as angry working on it as he was when he
worked on the bug. i think it was because he had more room to work.

anyway, at least we finally got everything done and i was able to drive
my bus tonight to pick up the kids from day care. now i can try to get
some window painting jobs so i can start paying people back... or
maybe... GET A REAL JOB!!! AHHHHH!

waving and wondering where bus depot is located...
chris
