Date: Mon, 25 Nov 2002 10:55:52 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Tom and Thanh <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Wont start at all now...

>Those wire brush items are junk. Mechanics have a nice snap-on terminal
>cleaner that actually makes a cut on the terminals with a sharp little
>blade- you end up with clean new surfaces. That's the best way.

Yes - much better but I've had the brushes last through a dozen uses before 
rust destroyed them. I've used the better version too and prefer them.

>What I have come to prefer is GM style side terminals-I've never yet had 
>one give me a
>problem before the battery actually dies. I converted my bus over to a
>humongous GM battery under the Z-Bed this summer, since my battery boxes
>were rotted right out on both sides.

Hate to have that battery fall out.

>Since you have lots of battery experience, I'd like to ask you a question.
>I've been advised to put a battery tray or box around the battery, with a
>drain hose going through the floor. Not sure how to do this with side
>terminals. I'm also not sure if acid comes out of these batteries the same
>as top post ones. What do you think?

Well any battery is going to gas a little when being charged. Some 
batteries will bring acid with the hydrogen gas as well and the box would 
contain that as well. The gas is going float away but any liquid will have 
to go someplace. You can let it pool in the battery box but you'll have to 
wipe it out from time to time (VERY minimal amounts, be sure to neutralize 
it with baking soda first). A drain would allow it to simply fall out the 
bottom of the bus BUT I would be concerned about the rust and moisture 
problems that might come with a hole in the bottom of the bus. If it was 
mine I would not put a drain hose in.

In some of the past list discussions I read that some folks have blamed the 
battery tray rust on acid that was washed off of the top of the battery by 
rain and it sitting on the tray because the drain plug acted like a dam as 
much as anything else.

I have seen LARGE Navy batteries in the ship's diesel powered "launches" - 
or the Captain's Barge sweat ALOT of acid because the batteries would go 
from low charge to high charge (poorly charged from disuse and then well 
charged after a run across the bay). This would create alot of acid to 
cause rustout in your bus.

Be sure - if you haven't already - to add battery tie downs. I assume you 
did but have seen alot of people that don't.

Let us know how it goes.


Chris Mills in TN
