From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Type 2"
Date: Sun, 20 Aug 2006 14:42:17 -0500
Subject: BNNTA - "Buses Nowhere Near The Arch #21"...

Hi all,

Just as an update, the 21st BNNTA VW camping event is only two weeks away, and
we're in our final preparations for the arrival of lots of buses and other VWs
from all across the U.S.A.

We've again leased the entire group campground so that we can have it all to
ourselves.  Only VWs (of any model or year) will be admitted to the
campgrounds.  This beautiful secluded wooded campground is on a pennisula on
22 mile long Mark Twain Lake in northeastern Missouri, about 30 miles from
hstoric Hannibal, Mo.  Sites can not be reserved in advance, and are
first-come, first served.  There are quite a few sites with electrical
hook-ups, and everyone is good about sharing the outlets.  There will be an
informal Bus show with participant voting for awards, campfire activities,
music, a scenic countryside caravan over to Hannibal on Saturday, and lots of
site-to-site socializing throughout the entire holiday weekend.  There is
usually a little swap meeting going on too.  Food and supplies are available
in nearby Monroe City.  The total event/camping fee for the entire weekend at
BNNTA is $30 per VW, which this year will include a dash plaque.  If you like
stepping out of your bus each morning and seeing nothing but classic VWs and
their enthusiast owners, this events for you!

The event t-shirts are almost ready, trophys ordered, dash plaques on their
way, and the door prizes are coming in.  If you have anything VW that you'd
like to donate to the door prize pile, just bring it along.  Pack up you bus
or VW and drive safely over to the upcoming BNNTA event on Sept 1st thru 4th,
2006 at the group campground in the Indian Creek Recreational Area on Mark
Twain Lake.  Go to http://www.bnnta.com for more info!

Drive carefully and come join us for some family VW fun!

Bill Bowman
