From: "Melissa & Jerry Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: <hopping(-at-)mindspring.com>, "type2" <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>,
Date: Tue, 22 Aug 2006 18:58:17 -0700
Subject: RE: Gotta Sell My Bus...

Dear Nancy:   Go to The Samba.com
  You can list your bus for free.  Look at the other buses for sale that are
the same year and condition as yours.  You will need a digital camera to
post the pictures.  It is not difficult at all. Please keep in touch, and
you are in our daily prayers, uj

-----Original Message-----
From: hopping(-at-)mindspring.com [mailto:hopping(-at-)mindspring.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, August 22, 2006 5:01 PM
To: Jerry & Melissa Jess
Subject: Gotta Sell My Bus...

I have to sell my bus. I need cataract surgery (yes, I am too young, but
I've got to have it) and my health insurance won't pay for much of it. And I
can't get a raise, whine, whine, whine.

I am not happy about this, I've put a lot of time, money and thought into my
bus.. but the fact is this is the only asset I can sell that won't cause
real pain. It causes pain, for sure, but it is something I can live without,
much as I don't want to.

So, how do you suggest I go about doing this?

It is a 73 Westfalia. It is in great shape, only a couple of thousand miles
on an AVP rebuilt engine from a 74, Most of the new stuff is from the past
couple of years, but has had very little use. It has a nearly new
alternator, newish dual carbs, new tie rod ends, new rubber in the front
doors, new canvas uptop, new tranny, new rear axel stubs, new cot up top,
kid's front cot is complete and new, new screen for the back door, new front
floor mat, hotstart relay, newish upholstery for the front seats, custom
made curtains with correct curtain rods and spring cord. The stool!! I have
a beautiful awning for it, portapotty and other such goodies. I replaced the
water tank because it leaked. The faucet works but leaks a little around the
top. What's wrong with it... needs new upholstery in the back, but what is
there still is very usable. Tires are about six years old, with very little
wear. It leaks a little oil. The windshield sprayer doesn't work, but I
replaced the switch. The windshield rubber is rough. It has been garaged the
entire time I've owned it. I've driven it perhaps 10K in the seven years
I've owned it, very little in the past two years. 

It has been an Arizona bus its entire life. No rust. It has the original
transporter's owner's manual from Van Wyk VW Tucson, with the plastic
envelope it came in. The camper instructions are a xeroxed copy. I've talked
with two of the previous owners. 

The exterior is good, the paint is not the original, but it is the original
color. There is a crease on the sliding door, a dent or two in the back and
the back bumper is chrome.

The windows are tinted dark, it has screens on the jalousie windows, which
all work. 

There is lots of other stuff, can't remember all of it.

Anything you can suggest would be most appreciated. I've sold cars before,
so the process isn't scary to me, but I want to do this right, get the best
return for my beloved bus and find it a good home...

Thanks, Jerry.

Nancy
How's the weather in Tucson? Click here:
http://www.cs.arizona.edu/camera/
