From: m.dinola(-at-)comcast.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 08 Apr 2007 13:42:03 +0000
Subject: RE: [T2] Need Helping Hands in Portland, Oregon

Do not forget to disconnect the battery before doing anything gas related! Also, 
an inline fuel filter is a good idea when you replace the gas lines. A nice safe 
approach to use if you do not have a floor jack, is to jack with the vehicle 
jack in the rear and use 6" X 6" or 8" by 8" solid wood block. Bigger is better. 
Get the vehicle up in the air, after loosening your lugs, and chock the front 
tires, place blocks underneath the torsion tubes, and slowly lower so that some 
weight is on the blocks and just a bit on the jacks. I usually carry two VW 
jacks with me at all times so I can get both sides of the rear end in the air. 
You can remove the tires to give yourself more room to work.  If you have some 
type of awning  or open ended tent, set it up over the rear top of the vehicle 
to give yourself a warm dry place to work. You can always get the engine warm, 
shut off the vehicle and set up the enclosure around the back of the vehicle. I 
always open the rear hatch, spread my tools over the rear pedestal area above the engine, inside the van. Also, I get a big piece of heavy cardboard from an appliance or something large and use it to lay 
on. It keeps you off the cold ground and relatively dry, it's nice and clean, 
and is reuseable. A small propane heater goes a long way, with proper 
ventilation. I have one called Lil' Buddy that shuts off if the oxygen gets too 
low. Best to do your gas with out this running however. I have fixed a bus in a 
 rain/sleet/snow storm using this technique. For a gasket, you can buy a sheet of 
gasket material at your FLAPS and use the bottom of the carb as a template. Cut 
with an exacto knife or some such razor knife. If you have the weber 
progressive, start looking for another carb. It's rediculous to dial in. It took 
me quite a while to get my bus running smoothly with one of these, and the dual 
throat is just about useless. Get a box of paper shop rags at walmart and a 
small brass wire brush with a sturdy handle. Clean, clean, clean. If you are using brakleen or carb cleaner WEAR RUBBER/LATEX mechanics gloves! 
 This stuff absorbes right into your skin and goes right to your organs. Adjust 
 the valves dead cold. 
 What I am getting at, is you don't always need a fancy setup to get work done if 
 you think ahead, use what you have on hand to your best advantage and think 
 about the job before you start tearing in to it. Oh and be careful replacing 
 those gas lines! I have filled my eyesockets and my right ear with gas, whilst 
 trying to swap lines on a camper with a full tank of gas. Didn't get the golf 
 tee in the gas line the first time, then dropped the golf tee. It was pretty 
 stupid, and I lived to talk about it. Fortunately, I was not alone in the garage 
 when it happened. But oh the horror, THE HORROR! It was pretty scary, and as 
 cocky as I am, I will not ever pull that one again. 
 
 and get a torque wrench. It's pretty damn near impossible to guess how much 
 torque is being applied without one! 
 
 Ciao for now, 
 
 Matt D
 Somersworth NH
 Previous owner of at least 20 campers
 69 baja convertible
 Proud owner of 3 complete (I think) Bradley GT II Kits, unassembled (Yes they 
 are for sale)
 And currently looking for my next late model camper. 
