Date: Sun, 08 Apr 2007 14:16:12 -0500
From: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: Joshua Patterson <sellwoodvw(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Need Helping Hands in Portland, Oregon

Joshua Patterson wrote:
> So today I started tearing down the engine, I am attempting to remove the
> head with the engine in the bus (1972). 

It's possible, but not easy.  You will either have to lower the engine a 
bit or bend up some tin for clearance.

> I also need a torque wrench for this process which I do not have. Could I
> borrow yours.. Also needed would be Jack stands and a jack say a floor jack.

You can get a combination of a small floor jack and two jackstands for 
about $20 on sale at Pep Boys, Harbor Freight or Northern Hydraulics. 
Even Sears might have them for a reasonable price.  Go ahead and buy 
them, you will be needing them in the future.

For the torque wrench, just get the torsion type at Sears, I think it is 
around $20, maybe less.  They work just fine and you will be needing it 
again in the future.

> My carb (a holly bugspray) I think, seems to have been broken for a while. I
> have no clue if it was ever working properly. It seems as though only one
> barrel has been firing. Due to the fact that one barrel is blacked with
> build up the other is clean as a whistle.

Not necessarily an indicator that it is or is not working.

  Then I press down on the auto fuel
> button and fuel only shoots into one barrel.

That is probably normal.  That is just the accelerator pump circuit 
which is not the primary function of the carburator.

As others have said, do a compression test before pulling the head.  You 
might be able to borrow the compression tester from an auto parts store, 
or just buy one - they are also around $20.  Yes, you will be needing 
this again too, a compression test should be the first step in 
diagnosing most engine problems.

I know I said, "Just buy one" several times.  The bottom line is that to 
work on a bus engine you need to OWN some tools.  If you can't afford to 
buy a few tools or pay someone else for repairs, you probably shouldn't 
be driving an old VW bus.  Sad but true.

-David
