Date: Mon, 14 Jul 2003 14:35:57 -0400
From: BillM <thegreenwesty(-at-)netscape.net>
To: brnagn7(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Bus Depot prices to HIGH ! I Found parts way cheaper

brnagn7(-at-)yahoo.com wrote:

>not to knock anyone or ones company but competition is
>the name of the game. as a very small business owner
>myself I understand prices sell..and so does
>

As a small business owner  you would understand quality issues also. The 
rubber Jbugs sell is not the same Ron has. The stuff from Bus Depot is 
usually from Europe,NOS or a QUALITY reproduction. Not to say some 
pieces are junk,but he gets the best available. Let me know how many 
times that "lifetime warrenty" helps out when the seals leak.


>Word-To-Mouth..
>
>so im spreading the word.
>
I am also spreading the word. When I had a campout in May I called 
around for catalogs,prizes and handouts for it. The only two that 
stepped up to the plate was Bus Depot and
Go Westy. That means a lot in my book. Go Westy donated some prizes. Bus 
Depot made up a special coupon giving a discount to people who attended. 
I did mail a request to Jbugs and never even got a reply. When I called 
on the phone I was told they would send me some catalogs if I paid the 
shipping. No thanks!

>.
>
>I've heard so much hype about bus depot, then i
>followed several posts by some folks on the list, so
>before ordering from bd i did some homework..
>
>I found there prices next to insane, compared to what
>i found at Pacific J Bugs Ph. 1-800-231-1784
>
I have also used Bus Boys. Which one time in the past I had a problem 
with. They solved in quickly and professionally. Their prices are higher 
than Bus Depot and shipping
is usually more as I live on the East Coast. While you do your homework 
find out who contributes to the list. Have you ever talked to the owner 
of the company?Ron is always available.
While I am on the soap box I also give my Highest regards to 
Aircooled.Net. John is a top notch guy with a top notch business.(ask 
him about the great sway bars he has for a bay)
Go and ask J Bugs a question about a distributer. I bet you'll here 009!!!!

Spreading hate and discontent in Mystic,CT

love
Bill M
