Date: Wed, 02 Oct 2002 20:08:00 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starter woes

>Even if autozone does sell a bosch starter they charge insane amounts of
>money for them. I remember about a year back i needed a new starter and
>they quoted me something like a few bucks shy of $200 for an "OEM" quality
>starter. bad news. I ended spending 100 on a new bosch one. I refuse to
>put crap in my bus and that is generally what you get at autozone: really
>expensive crap IMHO.



FYI

As a former employee of Advance Auto we had a HUGE return rate for 
starters, alternators, etc in the first 18 months after an item was 
originally purchased. Also the brand name on the rebuild doesn't mean a 
thing. We sold AC Delco rebuilds and I have since found out through another 
"Parts Pro" (their version of the resident expert) that the AC Delco on the 
box did not reflect who did the rebuild work - that it is a marketing 
thing. AC Delco is loaning out their trademark for a price and the work is 
done by a third party.

ANYTIME you deal with on of these FLAPS be sure to have them test your 
electrical equipment before it goes out the door. We had alot fo starters 
and alternators (among other things like ignition modules) dead on arrival. 
That means they were dead "new" on the shelf.

I think alot of the quality control expects the owners of these parts to 
change cars before the part craps out which it does often.

I'd lean towards either the dealer or some place like Bus Depot where you 
can find out the origin of the parts and get some sort of service.

Our manager back then would stand behind the store warranty if he "felt" 
like it. We saw many parts come back with signs of abuse and he commonly 
told those people the warranty did not apply. If your part was not abused 
but maybe looked (dirty) it you'd be out of luck too.

Where starters and alternators are concerned - if you've got to operate 
with local sources - pay a bit more ans make friends with a local rebuilder 
or learn to rebuild them yourself and save ALOT of money.


Chris Mills in TN
