Date: Wed, 02 Oct 2002 23:23:49 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Rear Wheel bearing packing tool

By popular request, I am sending this info.  I love keeping these old busses
on the road and rear wheel bearings are expensive to replace in both time
and material.

Keep in mind, I'm a shop teacher and love to build things, so this isn't
your average screwdriver and drill project, but some of you may have access
to the tools needed to make it.

Not really simple to explain, but not too hard to make if you have access to
an engine lathe and inside/outside micrometers.

I made a cylinder from a piece of heavy wall pipe (schedule 80) and turned
it down to fit snuggly where the wheel seal should fit.  I bored and honed
the inside to make it true and smooth.  Using a piece of solid nylon round
bar stock, I made a piston slightly smaller than the cylinder.  I then
turned a groove in the nylon piston for a sealing O ring.  Next I turned a
smaller piece of nylon bar stock to fit inside the bearing where the stub
axle would go.  Center drilled the larger piston on the lathe to accept the
smaller one, then glued it in.  The smaller piston keeps the grease from
passing through the stub axle hole.

Simple operation, 

1.  Pull the stepped piston out of the cylinder.
2.  Press the cyliner inside the hub where the grease seal should go.
3.  Fill the cylinder with grease around the edges.
4.  Insert the smaller piston inside hole for the stub axle, followed by the
larger piston.
5.  Force old grease out back side until only new grease comes out (this may
take a couple fillings in the cylinder).

Really fun and a good feeling to watch the old black grease come out the
back, knowing you are sending fresh clean grease in.

For the CV's, I turned a flat plate that attaches to the step that I turned
for the grease seal.  I attach the grease press to the CV with a pair of
welding clamps.  Reverse the piston so the large flat end goes in first and
the stepped end is out.  Leave the axle in the CV.  Put a complete packet of
CV grease in the cyliner and force it through the CV just like the wheel
bearings, but it takes much less pressure.  By packing the CV in this
manner, you know the grease is where it should be.  Even in the Bentley
manual, they don't use this type of grease press.

I hope you can use this information to keep your bus on the road.  The
number of busses on the road is going down like the stock market every day.
