Date: Wed, 02 Oct 2002 23:01:06 -1000
From: bpierce <bpierce(-at-)flex.com>
To: dgrauer <dgrauer(-at-)sasktel.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Removing Undercoating??

Logan,

I had some rust (a lot) on the floor panels of my bus.  Fortunately the 
frame was spared.  

I cut out all the rusted parts with a saw or torch.  Cleaned the edges 
up with a rust converter, changes iron oxide to iron sulfate - following 
the directions by waiting 24 hours until I primed the area.  I used old 
road signs to patch the holes in the floor board.  I work for the County 
and we had some totally worn out signs, couldn't read anything all 
scratched up.  They work great!  Heavy gauge aluminum - strong and will 
not rust.  Attached them by using aluminum pop rivets.  

Finally covered the whole floor with "Zophar" brand "Triple A" paint. 
 Cost $28 per gal.  Two coats,  Has to be done by brush.  Bummer, BUT 
this stuff is the best.  I work with waste water, a.k.a. raw sewage. 
 Waste water will eat through anything you put in it if not treated.  It 
even causes corrosion on stainless steel.  We paint all out pumps and 
anything else that goes into waste water with this paint.  After 12 
months to 24 months we'll pull it out for maintenance and there will be 
no corrosion and the paint is still in very good shape.  At 60 months 
you may have to repaint.  This is with being totally submerged and 
running 24/7 for 365 days a year.  I believe to say this stuff will 
handle anything the road can throw at it.

If you don't want to paint it yourself, the Zophar is a very messy paint 
job, the next best thing is either "Line X" or "Rhino Lining" truck bed 
liner sprayed on to the underside.  Cost quote I got was $650 - the bus 
is big.

Sorry kind of ran on there...

Good luck on whatever you deside to do.

Bradley Pierce
'79 Bus

dgrauer wrote:

>I would like to add to that questions, since Ive been
>wondering about getting mine undercoated again.  The
>factory stuff is coming loose and there is surface rust
>underneath...
>
>So question, can I just get it like Ziebart'd over the
>old possibly loose stuff???
>
>Logan
