From: "Jay Brown" <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>
To: "'type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Oct 2002 09:27:40 -0400
Subject: '79 2.0L into '72

	I have a chance to pick up a non-running '79 bus in my area for a very
reasonable price. The engine appears to be original and has about 80,000
miles on it.  Cooling tin and engine seal are both present and in decent
shape.  The FI is partially removed and there appear to be a few broken /
missing pieces. The engine turns over by hand, and the owner says it has a
new starter, but that is about all that I know about it outside of "it ran
until I tried to tune it up a couple years ago".  He was also under the
impression that there was "something wrong with the damn carburetor I
think", but I will leave that alone for now...
	My current plan is to do a visual inspection, fluids check and a
compression test on the engine.  If the results are favorable, I plan to
rebuild the 2.0L engine for use in my '72 hardtop camper.  This will allow
me to keep my current 1700cc (still running, but getting tired..) as a
backup.  Before I decide for sure that I want to undertake this project I
have a few questions for the list.
	1) Can a 2.0L be setup to run well with dual carbs (if so, any suggestions
for carb type)? I would like to keep things as simple as possible, and
wiring FI into a bus that has never had it before does not sound like much
fun.  How tough will it be to convert an FI engine over for use with carbs?
What do I need to look out for?
	2) Any problems matching the '79 engine to my '72 transaxle? The '79 is an
automatic, so I know it most likely won't be a drop in swap. Can I keep the
clutch/flyweel from the '72, or do I need to upgrade to the bigger '79 unit.
Will I need to use a '79 bell housing to do the swap (or should I really
wait until I find a full '79 tranny?)
	3) Shift linkage - any problems with compatibility between the shift
linkages of these 2 years?
	4) Gearing - will the gearing in the '72 trans be a bad mismatch for the
2.0L? I am guessing that I will have good speed off the line, but still be a
bit slow on the highway compared to a later trans?
	5) Install / fit - will the '79 engine bolt right up to the '72 mounts (I
think it will..) or will I have to do some fabrication for new engine mounts
etc.
	On a different note, does anyone have a need for a '79 auto-tranny in the
NH area? How about a '79 rolling shell in decent shape for very little money
out of pocket ($150.00 or so, just to cover part of my investment)...  I
will try to get some pics together and post them to my site if anyone might
be interested.
	I am sure that I will come up with about 100 more questions before I get
this underway...

				Thanks in advance,
				Jay Brown
				'72 Hardtop Camper
				http://www.geocities.com/vwcamper72
