Date: Thu, 03 Oct 2002 09:34:01 -0500
To: "Jay Brown" <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>, "'type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] '79 2.0L into '72

At 08:27 AM 10/3/2002, Jay Brown wrote:

>        My current plan is to do a visual inspection, fluids check and a
>compression test on the engine.  If the results are favorable, I plan to
>rebuild the 2.0L engine for use in my '72 hardtop camper.  

If you're going to rebuild it anyway, why worry about low compression?  Sure it would be nice if the compression was good but if you're getting the bus for say $300 you can hardly lose.  You will probably need to replace the heads regardless.

>        1) Can a 2.0L be setup to run well with dual carbs

Sure, many have done it including myself.

> (if so, any suggestions
>for carb type)? I would like to keep things as simple as possible, and
>wiring FI into a bus that has never had it before does not sound like much
>fun.  

Can't blame you for that.  On the other hand you will have a complete donor bus so you would have all of the extra parts you need such as fuel pump, gas tank, etc..  For carbs, I recommend duals but there aren't really any setups available that are cheap, simple and perform well.  They all have issues.  Assuming you already have the stock carbs, the easiest thing to do is simply keep them.  They will work fine on the 2.0 without any changes.

>How tough will it be to convert an FI engine over for use with carbs?

If you're talking about the long block, there's nothing to convert.  The only thing you will have to do is get an external electric fuel pump since the 79 engine doesn't have a hookup for the stock mechanical one.  You can't use the fuel pump from the '79 for carbs, it is a high pressure pump and you need a low pressure pump.  I'd get the rotary pump from CB performance or equivalent.  The Facet pump will also work but is noisy.  Check the archives for more info on electric pumps and issues with them running with the key off.  If you want to use the 79 fan housing, alternator, tin, etc. you will have some minor fitment issues.  My advice is to use the 79 block but use everything else from the '72 to minimize these issues.

>        2) Any problems matching the '79 engine to my '72 transaxle? The '79 is an
>automatic, so I know it most likely won't be a drop in swap. Can I keep the
>clutch/flyweel from the '72, or do I need to upgrade to the bigger '79 unit.
>Will I need to use a '79 bell housing to do the swap (or should I really
>wait until I find a full '79 tranny?)

Since the engine is coming out of an auto, you will not have a flywheel.  My advice to you is to use the flywheel/clutch from your '72 for now.  This question has been asked many, many times (and we have answered many, many times).  The reasons for my advice are in the archives if you're interested.

>        3) Shift linkage - any problems with compatibility between the shift
>linkages of these 2 years?

No.

>        4) Gearing - will the gearing in the '72 trans be a bad mismatch for the
>2.0L? I am guessing that I will have good speed off the line, but still be a
>bit slow on the highway compared to a later trans?

True.  Not a bad position to be in if you ask me.  I have that setup now and although I really can't cruise much faster than 65mph, it's nice not having to slow down for the 15mph headwinds we get 320 days/year here in Dallas, and I can pull some decent hills in 4th.  I got 27" tires to increase my top speed just a bit btw - love them.  If you must go faster on the freeway, getting a '74-75 trans and putting in a taller 4th gear (.82) would work well.  That is the route I will take eventually.

>        5) Install / fit - will the '79 engine bolt right up to the '72 mounts (I
>think it will..)

Yes.

One final thing - the '79 engine has rectangular exhaust ports (sometimes called Vanagon heads) while your '72 engine has oval ports.  This means you will not be able to use the '79 heads with the exhaust on your '72.  Some will say "they still bolt up" and my reply would be "but they won't seal very well" - not on my engine and I won't recommend anyone else do this either.  You might be able to trade in the 79 heads on some oval-port heads (what I did).  Don't let this stop you.

-David
