From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Jay Brown <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>, 'type2' <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Oct 2002 08:06:15 -0700 
Subject: RE: [T2] '79 2.0L into '72

  I just finished putting a 2 liter in a 73. Had to use the 1.8 flywheel and
did  a duel Kadron carb set up. Added an electric (facet) fuel pump with-out
regulator and an 009 dizzy. The engine runs like a top and I like the ease
of tuning and maintaining the Kadrons. I also have Kadrons on most of my
early bus engines and have never had a problem with them.
  The difference in power is amazzing. CB Performance just came out with a
duel Solex carb (NOT KADRONS) set up with chokes and vaccum ports (kind of
like the old bus Solex carbs). I have a set on order to see how and if they
will work on a type 4 engine. Duel carbs with chokes, about time!

ronnie

My next conversion is to put a 79 2 liter, with fuel injection in an early
72-74 Westy. Going to use the complete engine harness, wireing, fuel pump,
brain, relays, gas tank etc. directly from the wrecked 79 and installed in
the non F I bus. I do not know what and/or if I will need to ad or pull new
wires from the fuse block or not. I am just starting to do things on bays
after over 10 years of split bus work, it's like a whole new world, but at
least I will know what does and doesn't work.

-----Original Message-----
From: Jay Brown [mailto:jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com]
Sent: Thursday, October 03, 2002 6:28 AM
To: 'type2'
Subject: [T2] '79 2.0L into '72


	I have a chance to pick up a non-running '79 bus in my area for a
very
reasonable price. The engine appears to be original and has about 80,000
miles on it.  Cooling tin and engine seal are both present and in decent
shape.  The FI is partially removed and there appear to be a few broken /
missing pieces. The engine turns over by hand, and the owner says it has a
new starter, but that is about all that I know about it outside of "it ran
until I tried to tune it up a couple years ago".  He was also under the
impression that there was "something wrong with the damn carburetor I
think", but I will leave that alone for now...
	My current plan is to do a visual inspection, fluids check and a
compression test on the engine.  If the results are favorable, I plan to
rebuild the 2.0L engine for use in my '72 hardtop camper.  This will allow
me to keep my current 1700cc (still running, but getting tired..) as a
backup.  Before I decide for sure that I want to undertake this project I
have a few questions for the list.
	1) Can a 2.0L be setup to run well with dual carbs (if so, any
suggestions
for carb type)? I would like to keep things as simple as possible, and
wiring FI into a bus that has never had it before does not sound like much
fun.  How tough will it be to convert an FI engine over for use with carbs?
What do I need to look out for?
	2) Any problems matching the '79 engine to my '72 transaxle? The '79
is an
automatic, so I know it most likely won't be a drop in swap. Can I keep the
clutch/flyweel from the '72, or do I need to upgrade to the bigger '79 unit.
Will I need to use a '79 bell housing to do the swap (or should I really
wait until I find a full '79 tranny?)
	3) Shift linkage - any problems with compatibility between the shift
linkages of these 2 years?
	4) Gearing - will the gearing in the '72 trans be a bad mismatch for
the
2.0L? I am guessing that I will have good speed off the line, but still be a
bit slow on the highway compared to a later trans?
	5) Install / fit - will the '79 engine bolt right up to the '72
mounts (I
think it will..) or will I have to do some fabrication for new engine mounts
etc.
	On a different note, does anyone have a need for a '79 auto-tranny
in the
NH area? How about a '79 rolling shell in decent shape for very little money
out of pocket ($150.00 or so, just to cover part of my investment)...  I
will try to get some pics together and post them to my site if anyone might
be interested.
	I am sure that I will come up with about 100 more questions before I
get
this underway...

				Thanks in advance,
