Date: Thu, 03 Oct 2002 10:15:57 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Starter woes

At 07:54 AM 10/3/2002, VWBrain(-at-)aol.com wrote:
>Hello Dave and list    oh yes they have a lifetime warrenty, you will spend a
>lifetime changing them. LOL  yes they say Bosch on them but rebuilt by
>someone else, probably south of the border or Tawinize  or wherever . I offer
>my custmers the choice but tell them I will not quantee the labor on the
>cheap rebuilds, had one guy that I put in 4 in one day for, the money he
>spent could have paid the difference for the NEW Bosch. I have to say that
>the cheap ones have a failure rate about 10 times the Bosch ones. To each his
>own , thats why they make different color paints:)  Later and have fun  Mark
>Dearing  Salem Import Service Salem Va


Okay I need to vent about this.  WHY CAN'T ANYONE REBUILD ALTERNATORS
CORRECTLY???  Except Bosch maybe?  I have never had alternator problems until
a few years ago when I was living in Las Vegas.  The original alternator in my
bus died and I bought a replacement at a local FLAPS with a lifetime warranty.
Lasted about two weeks.  Took it back and instead bought a Bosch rebuilt (I
mean rebuilt BY Bosch) with a one-year warranty and it has been working great
now for three years.

Shortly thereafter the alternator on my Mustang dies.  I think to myself, Hah,
I'm wiser now, I will go to a real alternator shop!  So I go to a shop in
downtown Dallas, American Armature and Generator, family owned and been in
business for 30 years.  You know the type of place, in an old building with
alternators/generators/starters stacked to the ceiling everywhere.  Guys
bringing in generators from Studebakers, Edsels... still using a pushbutton
cash register.  They take my alternator and give me one they rebuilt, and
charge me a price higher than I would pay from somewhere like Autozone, but I
have the satisfaction of knowing it was done right.  Right?  Wrong.  It dies a
few weeks later.  I take it back (70 mile round trip, on my lunch hour, get to
work late to make up for it) and they happily give me another.  I do this song
and dance FOUR MORE TIMES.  Each time the alternator lasts between one week
and two months.  Each time it fails a different way.  Each time they happily
replace it and I maintain my composure.  Once it locked up and I had to have
the car towed (no tools with me to remove the belt).  The fifth time they give
me a "Rebuilt by Ford" alternator and a guilt-trip story about how they are
taking it in the shorts.  This alternator lasted about six months, then died.
In disgust I go to the local Autozone and buy a lifetime-warranty rebuilt.  At
least I won't have to drive downtown now to swap them.    I can swap a Mustang
alternator out in ten minutes now - I vow I will drive Autozone out of
business if I have to by returning alternators.  First one lasted over a year,
I'm on the second now, so far, so good.  I happened into another alternator
that I purchased outright and keep it as a spare for long trips (which I
rarely take in the Mustang anyway).

Around the same time as I started having trouble with the Mustang alternator,
my wife's Saturn alternator dies at 95,000 miles.  I don't blame the
alternator really since it was mounted underneath the power steering pump and
any leaks/spillage goes right on top of the alternator.  Great design.  In
goes an O'Reilly lifetime rebuilt, as we were selling the car soon anyway.
The new owner called me last week and said the alternator died.  I felt bad
enough to help him remove it and get a free replacement from O'Reilly
(lifetime warranty is non-transferrable).  Mileage on the car was now 107,000.
I hope he doesn't keep the car much longer.

My wife replaced her Saturn with a used Expedition.  At 98,000 miles (about a
week ago) the alternator dies.  I still haven't learned anything so I replaced
it with an Autozone lifetime-rebuilt.  Or tried to.  When I went to install
the new one, there was a bolt cracked off in one of the mounting holes.  The
dumb-a**es spray-painted right over it, probably never even looked.  Almost
dark, no garage to work in (yet) and I call Autozone and they tell me they
don't have another one in stock.  They only stock ONE Expedition alternator.
I have to drive another 10 miles to the next closest Autozone to get a
replacement.  Thanks guys.

So what is the alternative?  How does a person get a reliable alternator?  New
from the dealer?  I had never considered that but I may call them.  Even at
$400 it might be worth it at this point, for a car I'm going to keep.  Maybe
get a late-model factory alternator from a wrecker?  Low mileage?  Would
probably last longer than one of the crappy rebuilts.  Anyone solved this
problem?  Any sources for QUALITY rebuilt alternators I'm not aware of?

I wonder if I can adapt a Bosch bus alternator to my Mustang?

-David
