From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "MANZANO,DON \(HP-USA,ex2\)" <don.manzano(-at-)hp.com>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Oct 2002 08:55:42 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Reattaching the panel vinyl.

Since it is a 78, I only have one more year in California until the bus is
25 years old, then I will not have to smog it again.

 Don Manzano
 78' VW "Bess the Bus".
 don_manzano(-at-)hp.com

Hi, Don!
Congratulations on "Bess". It is exciting, isn't it?
I have also noticed this problem with detaching vinyl. I think that they
used rubber cement, and I'm sure there are better and more suitable things
out there now. We have an upholstery shop out here, "Evans Upholstery", and
just to walk into a place like that, an upholstery supply store, really
opens up the possibilities. They have the VW type fabrics for seats and
headliners, also all of the padding, foam, staples, adhesives.. everything
you want. Evans is in Gardena, CA, but maybe you can find something similar
near you.
Regarding the smog thing, it doesn't quite seem to work like that. So far as
I know, they are only up to '73 now, and it has stayed that way for six
years. That is what I have been told. But if you have any problems with your
smog, put on a new catalytic converter and that will probably fix it. Don't
put any money into it before you test, because if you don't test good, you
can get a certain amount of credit for the money you spend, I think up to
$300. I'm not exactly sure how it works, but I think that they have to give
you operation permits to use the vehicle, at least for awhile, allowing you
time to fix the problem.
I also have a '78 that I just bought, and I got it only for the engine and
tranny, which seem to work fine, except that I think it blew a pilot
bearing. I know that there is a leak in the muffler, and I hate to take it
out twice, but I won't put a penny into the exhaust until it tests once. I
know it will fail, but then I can go ahead and buy the complete exhaust
system and I will already be up to almost $300, so at least I can run it
around on the road for awhile if it still doesn't smog. Of course, I think
it will, or I wouldn't have bought it in the first place.
Even if the catalytic converters LOOK good, they only last a certain amount
of time, and then they should be replaced, so if it doesn't smog, try that
(unless it looks really new?)
Jan B
