Date: Thu, 03 Oct 2002 11:54:17 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Starter woes

>Okay I need to vent about this.  WHY CAN'T ANYONE REBUILD ALTERNATORS
>CORRECTLY???  Except Bosch maybe?

IMHO: (as a former Advance Auto employee)

In my experience rebuilders are often using Chinese or other 3rd world 
manufacturer bearings and components. These fail quickly on anything 
including my $150 Wal-mart bike. It has a bad crank bearing after only a 
couple hundred miles of in-town riding (campus commuter). This is called 
controlling cost. Cost that is for the shop doing the rebuild - not for the 
customer. Customer gets a cheap price at the cash register but not 
ultimately when he has to replace the replacement annually plus time off 
from work, a tow charge, maybe paying a mechanic twice... whatever.

The rebuilders don't automatically replace everything. They replace any 
SUSPECT parts. That means they take it apart and replace what's broke. Heck 
I can do that myself for a fraction of the cost of the parts stores!!!

The market is there for the CHEAPEST parts that these FLAPS can supply. I'd 
bet if we were all crossing desolate places like central Africa where we 
might get eaten by lions if our VW's broke down we'd be pretty pissed off 
(or our relatives would be). If our cheap replacement parts commonly failed 
like these with those type of consequences we would all be buying better 
parts and the cheapest replacements market would dry up.

ANYONE of us can replace bearings, brushes, diodes, etc. Do we have the 
time and motivation? Not if I'm making $25 an hour at my day job, but as I 
make much less than that I prefer to learn to do this task myself at $0 an 
hour than pay some other guy $10 an hour to do what I can. When I graduate 
with my Engineering degree maybe my motivations will change.

That's why I go on ranting and raving about paying $100 for a rebuilt 
alternator when all they did was clean it, replace a (at Chinese bearing 
prices) $2.25 bearing, button it back up, and spray paint it for you.

Alot of the Advance Auto alternators and starters come in boxes that rave 
about a 25 point (more? less?) inspection. Do they actually remove and 
inspect each component or do they pop an alternator open and just glance at 
it? Either way it is not enough. Nowhere did it mention that the alternator 
got all near bearings, all near brushes, all new regulators, all new diodes.

If I want to scrimp on my own rebuild I'll do it, but at FLAPS prices I 
better get a component that is as good as the factory new one with all new 
parts!

Many come back to the FLAPS within the first 18 months (some within 24 
hours) dead. Some are dead when we pulled them off the shelf. Not many but 
a few. How would you like to struggle with a driveway replacement only to 
discover that the new alternator is dead too? I saw a few of these irate 
customers and I did NOT like dealing with them so I began my own program of 
testing everything electrical before it went out the door. That way at 
least the customer would realize he or she did something wrong because it 
worked a couple hours ago. We would seem to get batches of bum parts and 
then no defects for weeks or a month.

The AC Delco "rebuilds" had a smaller # of defects but they were still there.

The rebuilders replaced (apparently) only what is bad with the cheapest 
replacement part to be had and send it back out to the stores.

If you and I would keep our OEM parts and rebuild them ourselves with 
quality parts it would last a long, long time at a tiny cost (relative to 
the store bought ones).

Quality control is good enough these days that parts are designed to fail 
after a number of cycles or # of revolutions or heat cycles or whatever. To 
me that means that when one bearing fails the other one isn't far behind. 
The tighter the quality control the more alike the parts are when 
manufactured and more likely that they all fail after about the same # of 
uses (or miles or cycles).

The rebuilders can replace the one bearing and the other fails in a year or 
6 months. We got a "deal" (cheap price at the cash register initially) and 
they get paid for rebuilding the alternator TWICE to replace 2 bearings.

That's life in America when you've got to compete with .22 cent an hour 
foreign labor at foreign rebuilders. Everybody is doing everything on the 
absolutely cheapest scale they can to compete. Quality suffers but we get 
alot of "good" deals. That's what drives Wal-mart and Advance Auto into 
billions of dollars profit. Most people - not necessarily you and not me - 
shop on price and assume the quality will be good enough. Sometimes it is, 
sometimes it isn't.

The Mom & Pop rebuilders are suffering because they have to operate like 
the volume rebuilders and do the least repair they have to before a unit 
goes back out the door.

I personally require a shop to rebuild my alternator and return it to me 
and specify what they did for me on said alternator. If they replaced one 
bearing I'd expect the other one to fail within a year. If I knew more 
about the rebuild business I would speculate (with more authority) that it 
was more often the bearing nearest the pulley that failed vs. the other end.

In my experience it is not the motor windings that fail if the alternator 
or the starter dies - it is something else - easier to fix - like bushings 
or bearings or a starter drive. These are all easy to buy from a good auto 
parts store that caters to professional mechanics like NAPA or some of the 
Mom & Pop auto parts stores.

I've rebuild these things for $10 plus my time and this has much more 
appeal than $78 off the shelf. What would be worse to me is pay $78 for the 
part, $20 for the mechanic's markup, and $125 for installation.

That is the reason that I HAD to learn to work on my own car. $10 is a long 
way from $225. It takes me many, many days to make $225.... This is the 
reason I like my VW - I can do my own work. On my '99 Honda I can do alot 
of the work but there's alot more to learn.

Just my $.02.


Chris Mills in TN
