From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 3 Oct 2002 16:24:29 -0500 
Subject: RE: [T2] Starter woes

	Great, Wise, Omnicient and Omnipotent List:

	I've been reading this little thread with a certain amount of
bemusement WRT to Bosch-rebuilts (and by this I DO mean rebuilt personally
by R. Bosch or perhaps his servants, heirs, successors and/or assigns).

	For a vast number of miles I made a point of carrying an
honest-to-Pete, Bosch rebuilt alternator in my beloved '72 Westy Weekender.
To and fro, hither, thither and yon, into the deepest recesses of Mexico I
carried that puppy.  Your humble storyteller had great faith in his trusty
Type 4 motor, but not being a gambler, I carried that alternator everywhere,
for all wise travelers south of the line know how promptly one finds Type 4
electricals in Mexico...

	That alternator.  Well, it was like, "how you say en Ingles?", it
was like an alternator to me.  I had confidence in my bus, it had confidence
in me that I was doing the right thing.  We made many journeys - most of
them happy, one or two in great sadness, but all with memories to the end of
my days.

	One day last spring, I decided to stop pushing my luck, and install
that most wonderful and fair Bosch rebuilt alternator that I had carried for
lo, those many miles.  I opened the road-grime besmirched R. Bosch box,
removed said alternator from it's humble abode, and discovered that those R.
Bosch guys 'n gals have some really sick/twisted sense of humor...

	The nut (most thoughtfully provided by R. Bosch's employees) used to
hold the pulley had somehow been installed with the Supreme Being's own
version of green Loctite (tm).  Delicate applications of propane heat,
torque, more torque, the dreaded and loathesome BFH, language most vile and
foul, and then even oxy-acetylene heat to mild redness failed to make it
yield it's death grip on the threads.  "Piffle" sez I, in a disgusted manner
- "I'm returning this Spawn of S*t*n from whence it came..."  and got
another from the most friendly Sikhs who run the VW FLAPS nearest home.  And
I did so cheerfully, for I had saved my receipt in the box...

	So, to bring this one on home, boys and girls, VW friends of all
creeds and colors...  Check yer d*mn alternator nuts AT the FLAPS counter
afore they leave you high and dry.  Does anyone else see the irony in this
story?  I know I do - I regularly check my nuts all the time just to make
sure...

	Jim H.
	www.savethebays.org
