From: "Bill Bowman" <BussesByTheArch18(-at-)msn.com>
To: "\(msge\) VintageBus List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>, "Ron Wenger"
Date: Fri, 5 Dec 2003 16:44:03 -0600
Subject: Any Johnny Lightning toy candidates out there?

Hi all,

A good buddy of mine, Ron Wenger, President of the Michigan Vintage Volkswagen
Club (the Club that hosts of the fantastic Michigan "VW Festival" every May)
has been asked to look around and suggest several possible candidate Busses
from our ranks for possible models for the next round of Johnny Lightning
collector series Bus toys.  Here is the message I received from Ron to forward
to anyone on the VintageBus List interested in having their 1964-66 (J.L. is
currently licensed by VWOA for this year range Bus only) Bus considered to be
made into a JL toy:


Dear Bill,

The toy car maker, Johnny Lightning, will be producing more Volkswagen toys in
the coming years. Johnny Lightning likes to model there 1:64th scale toys
after actual vehicles owned by enthusiasts.  I have been contacted by Johnny
Lightning because they are searching for the following VW Busses to possibly
model into toys. So if anyone has a nice example of one of the two specific
years and types of Volkswagen Busses listed below, please contact me at:
rvwenger(-at-)comcast.net  , or call 574-243-0467, please leave a message with a
number and I will call you back.

1) 1964, 1965, or 1966 VW "Samba" Bus/21 window Deluxe Sunroof Bus (with four
roof windows on each side of the sunroof and four side windows behind the
front doors).

and

2) 1964, 1965, or 1966 VW Type 2 Single Cab Pickup (two doors).  Both these
types of busses would have the larger and
flatter front turn signals than the earlier Type 2.

Many thanks !
--
Ron Wenger
President
Michigan Vintage Volkswagen Club
Http://www.mvvc.net

If I remember correctly, Listee Rob Lafoon had his velvet green single-cab
honored by JL and duplicated (down to the sticker on the back of his Bus) as a
toy.  Several other Busses have been done also.  Don't quote me, but I believe
that if chosen, J.L. includes a photo of your VW on the packaging, and I think
you get a case of "your" toy free.  Anyway, if you have the right VW bus, and
you want to see if your Bus might become famous, contact Ron at
rvwenger(-at-)comcast.net

Good Luck everyone!

Bill Bowman
NEATO
