From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Sat, 6 Dec 2003 18:05:50 -0600 (CST)
To: Ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com, Vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Subject: Check This Deal Out---

Read This one you guys ( and Gals--)
I may be "crooss looping" or double or triple sending this message--but
I want to be sure everyone see's this--
Here is a fool trying to dupe me--

The Wizard of Oz--

Nice Try Bozo---I ain't falling for it--
Beware when you list anything anywhere--this YO-YO will pop up and will
do you a big favor--

I'm going to tell him to send his "representative" direct to my home--to
hand me the check for the "Big Cheese" in person--
So I can grab him by the juggler vein and realign his thought
process--which won't really happen anyway--

Just a Warning to all----The Snake s Still Alive--in the Internet--

And the best item here is this idiot first tells me he is in
England---now he's traveled a bit, and now resides in South Africa--a
Globe trotter no doubt--

Yea --Right--

Later,

Terry


<<--2nd E-mail message-->>

From: kelvin_george(-at-)outgun.com (kelvin george) Date: Sun, Dec 7, 2003,
4:32am (CST+14) To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net Subject: Re: NOS Vanagon Jail
Bars !! - $245(payment)

Hi Terry,

Thanks for your quick response. I am interested and would be willing to
buy it at that price
I am located in South Africa and have an International shipping agent
that
will come pick the NOS Vanagon Jail Bars up from your house and ship to
me.
I will arrange for payment by sending your full name and address to my
client in the States who is owing me the amount of $1,800 to issue you a
cashiers check for this amount. which is a refund for a cancelled order
I placed with him, and being a refund the amount can only be written on
a single check.
I know it is more than the NOS Vanagon Jail Bars price but after getting
the
cashiers check , I need you to cash it and deduct cost of the NOS
Vanagon Jail Bars ,
then do me a favour of wiring the remaining balance to my International
shipper
via western union. You will also deduct
$200 for running
around and for wiring back the difference. After this is done, he will
then pick the NOS Vanagon Jail Bars up from your residence and ship to
me.
So, confirm this and send your full name and address including phone #
for mailing the check payment to you as soon as possible. Waiting for
your urgent reply,
Kind regards,
Kelvin.

<<<---1st Message From Mr. Generosity--Live From ENGLAND--->>

Hello, How are you doing today? I hope you and your family are fine?I am
based in england, I came across you classified ad and I am interested in
purchasing the merchandise you put up for sale the price is a little on
the high side please give me your last asking price and I would need a
picture or some more info so as to be able to make up my mind about the
purchase. Please email me at your earliest convenience so that we may
conclude on the purchase. Best Regards ken .
