Date: Sat, 6 Dec 2003 20:49:44 -0800 (PST)
From: Green on Green <kamax8g(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1956 Westfalia, The Saga Begins (long-ish)

Well, today I started working on the 56 Westy as far
as attacking the rust and dealing with terrible
previous repairs. I took a bunch of "before" pics to
document where is all began, for future reference and
hopefully some day to be amazed at how far it has
progressed. Seems like so far everything has taken 5
times as long as it normally does to accomplish
anything. Broken bolts, very worn (original) parts,
and shoddy previous repairs are the norm, rather than
the exception. So basically everything needs attention
of some kind. But hey, it is a 56 Westy, so........
Some things I had already been done, like removing the
incredibly rotted front doors and some removal of what
seemed to be an entire roll of insulation (the kind
you'd put in your attic!) from the lower front nose
area and in front of the metal where the sun visors
attach. The brakes have been completely redone, but
the rears will be removed again when the transmission
is removed in order to fix the front mount area, which
has been "lovingly" modified by a previous owner, with
an oxy/acetylene torch. This has been the ultimate
bummer point for me, and once it is repaired, I think
my overall attitude will change from dire gloom to
enthusiasm about it all. I still get depressed when I
think about the mount area right now. A correct
splitcase transmission will be installed.
The front floor was previously repaired by taking
pieces of another original front floor and then
grafting sections over one another. While driving, the
front floor felt like a relief map of the Rocky
Mountains. At some points, the floor was 4 layers
thick, and the access hole for the brake fluid
reservior was off by about 1.5 inches, partially
blocking the cap. 
I guess it was fortunate for me that the panels had
been brazed in, and after I realized it was easier to
reheat the brass and melt it away rather than using a
cut-off wheel, the removal went much easier and
faster. I got it down to the original floor pieces, or
what remained of them, and the remaining original
floor is not bad except for what had been
removed/repaired before. I am now faced with the
dilemma of patching in original floor sections to fill
the voids, or just replacing the entire floor
altogether. The problem I have with replacing the
entire floor is that the replacement floor I have is
from a "Hannover" bus, rather than a "Wolfsburg" bus,
and they differ slightly in a few minor details. I
could patch in the replacement metal and still retain
the "Wolfsburg" features, which is the direction I am
leaning towards right now.
The doglegs need repair to the lower box sections, and
the driver's side was almost completely full of rusty,
dirty chunks that looked like coffee grounds. 
So that's about it for now. For those interested, I am
posting pics to:
http://home.earthlink.net/~hazetguy/56  and will be
uploading more pics as work goes on. Most of the pics
so far are of the worst areas that need the most
repair help. 
There is still alot of work that needs to be done, and
this is just the beginning.
