From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: rob <coerver(-at-)mindspring.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 7 Dec 2003 11:51:45 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] re: Swind lever kit troub quests

  I have installed the bushings I sell in over 10 beams my self and do not
know how many kits I have sold in the last few years and have never heard of
this problem. I currentley have 2 different German brads in stock and some
OG (NOS) bushings I can measure against to see of their is a manufacturers
problem

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: rob [mailto:coerver(-at-)mindspring.com]
Sent: Sunday, December 07, 2003 8:39 AM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] re: Swind lever kit troub quests


Matt =

	The kit I bought from Ronnie was german and had I (think the name
Menze?) it was in a bue box ( ithink ).  Anyway, I found the OD of the
bushings too small as well.  I didn't have a micrometer so I don't know what
the OD size vs. bema hole size was.  My bushings were just loose enough to
stay in plac but could be moved with slightest easy.  
	Hmm I think - how the hell can I ream bushings if they turn while I
try to ream em?  I assumed that my beam "hole" was worn.  So I put a slight
knurl on the bushing and made them "out of round" in a vice. They then
needed to be pressed in and could be reamed.
	This is defanitely not the right solution but I need to get the bus
operational so I opted to mouse the job a bit.
	I haven't driven it that much but I am guessing that eventually the
bushings may start to get sloppy.  A machinist at work told me knot to worry
except that the bushings will only really have contact at the "out of round"
points.  
	I hope you find the answer, maybe bushing sizes are wrong in kits
these days?  
	If you find a kit that works, it will mean I will have to redo my
bushings ..sigh.. again!.  At least this time I won't have to cut the shift
rod coupling.  
	Any suggestions on the robustness of my approach would be
appreciated.

	-rob
	64 standard
