Date: Mon, 1 Aug 2005 00:46:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: Matthew Brooke <artntek(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Diagnostic Expertise Needed

Hi all -

I have a conundrum - we're supposed to be setting off
on a family camping vacation in our 78 Westy next
Saturday, but something tells me that might not be
possible. Please tell me otherwise... :-)

To cut to the chase - I drive the westy daily, and
it's been running badly at idle but OK on the freeway
for a while (it's never been *really* bad, just not
right. When it gets warmed up, it's better at idle,
but still lumpy). I put it down to exhaust leaks ('cos
I replaced/checked just about everything else) - and
have just finished installing a brand new 72-74
exhaust muffler & heater boxes, per Ron Salmon's
article on the list. Bad news is - still runs like a
dog at idle. here's what I did/found. Stop reading and
email me when you know what the problem is... :-)

Start with bus idling (badly)

1) removed plug lead from #2 cylinder - no change in
idle. Check lead - good spark. Install new plugs - no
change.

2) removed #2 injector wire - no change in idle.
Swapped #1 and #2 injector wires, then removed "new"
#2 wire - still no change (so wires are OK)

3) notice "chaff" sound from under #2 cylinder (like a
hi-pressure gas escape) - once every cycle. 
(This is what my previously-assumed exhaust leaks at
the head sounded like, but I'm pretty sure the new
manifolds are snug & not leaking. Could the noise be
gases leaking past the valve? Or maybe leaks at the
cylinder->head joint?) 

4) check hydraulic lifters - re-adjust, take up slack
& then 2 full turns.
(Note that #2 exhaust lifter is "springy". Turning
engine over pumps it up solid, but 5 mins later, it
leaks down and is springy again. Others are all solid.
Anything to worry about?)
*Also note - when #2 at TDC, exhaust valve stem
appears very slightly shorter than intake valve stem.
Compared these with #1 cyl (-at-) TDC, where both stems
looked same length. However, if valve burned/receded,
shouldn't stem be *longer*, not shorter??

5) with engine running, check for exhaust leaks by
covering tailpipe - lots of pressure to hold back, and
engine stalls, so no major leak. However, after engine
stopped, with my foot still sealing tailpipe, hear
hissing from area of #2 cyl - not sure if it's gas
escaping to outside, or leaking past exhaust valve
(leg won't bend enough to find out ;-). 

6) Notice that when engine first started, #2 exhaust
manifold takes longest to heat up. can still touch it
(barely), whereas touching others incurs 3rd-degree
burns on unsuspecting digits

7) Finally, it's 11pm, and not wanting to get
complaints from neighbors, I do a very quick & dirty
compression text - only on #2 cylinder, and with the
other 3 plugs still in place, and with the throttle
closed, not open (completely forgot to open it).
Reading is a measly 55psi. Past testing has shown
120psi on all 4 cyls +/- a few. Surely this couldn't
be due only to the throttle not being open?

so - Questions for anyone who hasn't quit reading by
now -

1) What's most likely to be the problem? What should I
check next, to ascertain this?
I'm guessing burned valve (although am confused why
stem is short, not long), or valve not closing fully
for some reason (but why??), or head studs pulled, or
head warped and leaking? 

When I fitted exhaust, I noticed that valve was sooty,
but I didn't pay close attention to how it was seating
- can you even see that from the rear, inside the
exhaust port? Is it worth me dropping the manifold to
look again?

2) Is there anything simpler I might have overlooked?
Do I have any hope of fixing this in 4 evenings and
one full day, or should I cancel the vacation?  (I
think I know the answer to that one :-(

Thanks in advance for any help or glimmer of hope you
can give me

PS - just spent the last 2 weeks painting my pop-top,
and fitted a new canvas this weekend. Not that I'm
feeling sorry for myself, or anything... :-)
