Date: Mon, 1 Aug 2005 02:53:28 -0700
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Matthew Brooke <artntek(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Diagnostic Expertise Needed

Hi Matthew,

Sorry to hear of your troubles. Sounds most likely to be your exhaust
valve got hot and is dropping. When the seat drops, it makes the stem
look shorter than the others. This cylinder will also be sooty because
it takes a minimum of 70 psi to make a combustible mixture, so the
cylinder isn't firing, and that's why you have no effect from
disconnecting the plug wire or injector wire. I never pull plugs or
keep throttle open for compression tests and get numbers in the 125
psi range.

You should not risk taking your trip before changing the head because
if the valve finally drops you will have major and more expensive
engine damage. We keep two buses just for a backup in case the main
camper is down when it is vacation time. Otherwise, the head for #2 is
easier to get off without pulling the motor because the oil cooler tin
is not in the way. If you call Ron at Bus Depot he is real good about
expediting orders and has the updated heads that are not as prone to
valve dropping.

You might retorque the head just in case it is a loose head and not the
valve.

Good luck and hope you make your vacation.

John

On 8/1/05, Matthew Brooke <artntek(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:

> 5) hear
 hissing from area of #2 cyl - not sure if it's gas
 escaping to outside, or leaking past exhaust valve


> 6) Notice that when engine first started, #2 exhaust
 manifold takes longest to heat up. can still touch it
 (barely), whereas touching others incurs 3rd-degree
 burns on unsuspecting digits

> 7) compression text - only on #2 cylinder, and with the
 other 3 plugs still in place, and with the throttle
 closed, not open (completely forgot to open it).
 Reading is a measly 55psi. Past testing has shown
 120psi on all 4 cyls +/- a few. Surely this couldn't
 be due only to the throttle not being open?
