Date: Mon, 1 Aug 2005 16:16:16 -0600
From: "Bronsema, Max" <MBronsema(-at-)albertson.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: SolWest Trip Report - Long

Hi all,

I took Louise, 71 Westy, out to John Day, OR for the SolWest fair. SolWest is
a fair showing the benefits of solar energy and has many distributors and
workshops. The fair itself was quite a blast. To my surprise the WetWesties,
NW vw camper club, had made the trip and was sponsoring a campout. I pulled in
and spent the night with them. Great people and really fun talking bus with
other bus fanatics. I also learned lots of great ingenious ideas for making
camping more fun.

The trip over, 160 miles, was uneventful except for being run off of the road
by a big dualie truck pulling a camper. I was tilted precariously and my bus
would not start. A nice gentleman named Tony pulled me out of the
shoulder/ditch and all the way to the top of the pass. My bus still had a hard
time starting but eventually she fired and I was off again. Could the tilt
have flooded one side of the engine? I pulled over at the bottom of the pass
not quite remembering if I had closed the engine hatch, nope I didn't, but I
got that fixed up and ended up in John Day with no other incidents.

We spent that night talking about tires falling off and historic WetWesty
campouts of epic proportions. It was fun :)

The next day after doing the fair thing I headed home over 4 passes,
approximately 5,000' each. The bus worked just fine except after slowing down
for stop signs in a couple of the cities I passed through my oil warning light
would flicker on. I averaged 35mph going up the passes and 55mph everywhere
else. I am running 30wt oil so I am guessing the ambient temps of around 100
broke the oil down a little much and I just need to run a heavier weight oil
or a blend in this kind of heat. After stopping for gas on the way back my bus
also had a hard time starting. The engine was very warm. Is that what the
hot-start relay would fix?

Overall it was really fun and the trip was smooth except for being run off the
road the one time. I believe my bus got about 16mpg, I am going to try and
figure it out exactly when I go camping again this weekend.

Anythoughts on the flickering oil light, hard time starting the hot engine, or
if a side of my engine could be flooded from being tilted so much? Thanks.

Max
71' Westy "Louise" 1600dp
