Date: Fri, 16 Aug 2002 12:34:07 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] volts: 6x2=12?

>From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Date: Thu, 15 Aug 2002 23:14:41 -0700
>
>Somehow I don't think it is that simple. How would you get 12volts dc
>(radio, cellphone charger) out of a 6volt dc system?

1.  Convert to 12 V.  Alternator, bulbs, etc.

II. Get two 6 V Buses.  Run a wire from the battery positive on the
    first bus to the chassis on the other.  Connect your 12 V gear
    between the chassis on the first bus and the battery positive
    on the second. 

C.  As II but without the second Bus.  Buy a small 6 V "gel cell"
    and hook its negative terminal to your Bus' positive terminal.
    Then the positive terminal of the gel cell will be at 12 V.
    The drawback is then you have to charge the gel cell from time
    to time.  If you're really slick, hook up relays to charge the
    gel cell from the main battery when you're parked.

100.  Build a "flying capacitor" voltage converter.  Basically you
      hook up a big cap across the Bus' 6 V, let it charge, and then
      unhook it and reconnect it in series like the battery in C.
      You need a biiiig capacitor to make this work.

5.  Get a DC-DC converter.  These used to be common as dirt for cars
    and are now hard to find.  I got a couple of Rat Shock ones at
    the last swap meet.  J C Whipme still has a couple that are
    wildly overpriced.  They are also available for electronics use
    but tend to be wildly overpriced new; surplus has cheap prices
    but it's catch as catch can.  The converter is a little box that
    chops the incoming DC into AC, runs that through a transformer,
    and rectifies the transformer output back to DC.  Sounds crazy
    but it works well; everybody's PC has a power supply like this
    (it won't work in a Bus though.)  If you're a serious audio pile
    you might notice a bit of a whine in the radio if you power it
    from one of these; options C and 100 are better in this regard. 

Option C is the easiest if you don't know much about electronics.
Options 100 and 5 require that you know which end of a soldering
iron to hold and how not to let the smoke out of a transistor.
For option 5 you might luck into finding an old automotive one or
a good electronic one in surplus which makes that option simpler
but if not you're stuck building one.

Matt Roberds
  

