Date: Fri, 16 Aug 2002 17:45:08 GMT
To: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: mangosplit(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re:Re: [VB] headliners - fuzzy vs. perforated

'64 ehh, well that helps.  maybe it's a must to stick with mohair.  my main concern is water staining, but then again, it never rains down here, and when it does, i ride my bike.  sacrifice the body to spare the bus!

---------- Claralw(-at-)aol.com writes:

From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: mangosplit(-at-)juno.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] headliners - fuzzy vs. perforated
Date: Fri, 16 Aug 2002 13:32:38 EDT

actually 64 was the first year vinyl headliner became standard, though they 
were an option for a bit before that.

From what I hear, it is easier to install cloth headliners.   
No idea about longetivity.   you can tear either.   cloth gets old,  vinyl 
gets brittle.

I like the cloth, except if I had a tukois 61 I might put the green vinyl 
headliner in it if I could find one, like the tukois 64s came with.


In a message dated 8/16/2002 9:21:09 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
mangosplit(-at-)juno.com writes:

<< list:
 
 my early '63 15 window (production date of july 1962), came originally with 
a fuzzy cloth headliner.  with the understanding that someone will flame me 
for even thinking of putting in a perforated headliner, i am seeking opinions 
of comparing cloth headliners vs. perforated.
 
 while everyone knows i'm a *stock guy*, the '63 model year was the first 
year of the perforated headliner (i think).  since i have a '63 deluxe, it 
would not stand out if i put a perforated headliner in it.  i'm considering 
doing that if in fact perforated headliners have better longevity, are easier 
to clean up, are more water stain resisitant, etc.  in other words, if 
perforated makes more sense from a useability standpoint, then i think i 
should consider that.  if on the other hand both materials hold up just as 
well, then i'm leaning toward keeping the bus as it was originally built.
 
 any comments or suggestions are more than appreciated.  i can take the 
criticism as well, so feel free to blast if you're in that kind of mood today.
 
 tia.
 
 robert
  >>




