From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 18 Aug 2002 21:26:43 -0400
Subject: Do not look under your bus! It can be scary

Today-hot here in boston ~95 degrees, and swimmingly humid.

I thought I would adjust my clutch, as recently when I broke down, and DAvid
the guy who helped me out, drove my bus (post-fix) he mentioned that he
thought the clutch seemed off. anyway i never noticed it, but i think he was
right it was too tight. So I finally jack the bus up a little, roll under
grab the adjusting wing nut-doesnt want to move. squirt some pb blaster on
it, then while waiting for it to penetrate, I went around and lubedall the
door hinges. Back under, and adjust the wing nut-no problem. But I look at
what appears to be a spring on the arm that the clutch cable goes through.
But theis spring doesnt appear to be doing anything, actually it appears
broken, but I am not sure what it should look like.

Then I went up under the front seats, and removed what I call the belly pan,
although i think that is the wrong name for it(it is the pan under the front
seats, you need to remove it to see the pedal assemble underneath the bus)

Anyway-I see the acceleratos cable pivot point is bent(I remember it has
been like this since I got it, i just forgot about it. I should probably
straighten this out) Then I see a piece of a spring in the pan-the brake
return spring is broken. Quite odd because it isn't rusty at all, it just
broke. Then I see the a bushing on the shift linkage is sheared. I think
that is what it is supposed to be, it looks like a white plastic thing.

So a simple clutch adjustment-turns into discovering two springs broken, a
bushing sheared, and the accelrator linkage bent.

my advice to everyone else-just drive it. ;)

Anyway-any advice on these - it was way too hot to even think about doing
anything today. I probably will need to wait for this heat wave to pass.
install a swimming pool, with an icemaker in  one end.

-kevin



