From: "vwhoward & Denise" <vwhoward(-at-)ctaz.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 19 Sep 2001 19:08:21 -0700
Subject: JEROME  my version (Long)

 Well here it is:

Got the Zebra bus running, less brake light around 6 PM Thurs and took it
around the block cause didn't want to see a cop as had been having a few
beers all day while getting the bus running. Total of about 1/4 mile driving
.
Got up at 4:20 AM and find a note from the wife that she went to the
hospital around 4 with bad stomach pains and didn't want to wake me ( great
wife). Ran down stairs and loaded rest of stuff, woke up Britt and said we
are going to the hospital ASAP, and remember no brake light. Got there and
sent britt to meet Ronnie, and found out she had bladder infection ( from
drinking my cheap beer maybe). Got things taken care of and left LHC around
6:30 AM hauling butt to catch Ronnie and was doing constant 50 sec miles by
markers, so guess about 70/72 mph.
Only real thing wrong was steering with about 1/4 turn play and the ribbed
part was going front to back instead of left to right so it made reading
speedo hard and no place to rest my elbows. Made for a good time when the
semis pasted me.
Never saw Ronnie or the group. Saved 61 miles (by my old Mile-O-Meter wheel)
by taking 32 mile dirt road out of Ashfork. You cross the Verde River on
old Perkins bridge about 1 mile from the source of the Verde River. Got to
Jerome around 10:45 and had a beer with Kyle and Jon and their wives, no one
else there.
Set up and waited. The other group Finnaly got there.
Made Fri. night tacos for all and only made around 200, slow night. Watched
a bunch of buses arrive after dark, hit the sack around 11 PM.
Up at 6 and made breakfast for Cousin Willie and others and had a beer. Set
up swap stuff and sold some and bought some. Bought $100 worth of raffle
tickets(200) and waited for raffle. Did a Timmie and won quite a few small
things, wishing they would leave my tickets for the bus.
No lunch, BBQed a ribeye and asparagus for me and Cousin Willie and DeDe.
Grest dinner, then to Kyles and a shot, then off to visit the other camps.
Never made it past the TT's. Cousin Willie said I had fun and to wait till I
got my pictures developed that he took. Guess I was put to bed around 10PM.
The rest had a blast going from camp to camp and didnot get in till around
1PM.
Sunday up for breakfast and we combined 4 camps worth of food, GREAT and
feed 20 people. Super raffle and auction. Wanted Drew Barrymore autographed
pict but they went for $50 each. Deal of the show was the autographed
picture that JP got for $30!
After bus raffle and camp cleanup said good-byes to all that were leaving
and moved camp over to Kyles area. Took a shower on the back of a 1938 Mack
water truck and it felt great. We all chipped in on food left over and had a
great mex style dinner . Finished all the beer and hit the rack around 9:30.
Got up at 4:30 and headed for Flagstaff and a seminar that the city was
sending me to for 2 days. Wont bore you with the rest except for the Sat
night pictures. Took them to WalMart during Monday lunch break for the 1
hour deal, picked them up after Mondays class and took back to my room. 1st
pack ok with drive out and Perkins bridge, 2nd pack has white paper on it
stating WalMarts policy on developing pictures that don't meet there
standards. They didnot do 3 of the pictures, the rest they did do are cool.
4 of the silicone lady they did develop. TT's party on. To all, thanks for
the Cheetos and memories.
Final gas mileage for whole trip was 22.7 if I figured miles to km right.
See you all at BBB in Jan, with NEW Friday night tacos.

John ( Cheetos) Howard

