Date: Thu, 20 Sep 2001 14:35:04 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Leske <bullimeister(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>,
Subject: RE: [VB] bad manners

--0-2012337096-1001021704=:30983
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii


 To liberal pinko types, everyone is rascist.  That is one of their favorite buzz words.
 
  Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com> wrote: Was writ:
"I don't condone violence, in any way, and, this is also far from the place
to tell people of your own personal racism. I felt theses tragic events as
much as anyone, but ranting about killing and violence IS NOT THE ANSWER. I
don't expect all of you to understand this view, just to respect it. please,
keep violent and racist emails of the VB list. thanks, Meredith" 

Personally I did not interpret the e-mail by Les as racism... Racism is
such a strong word and very overused. I think what we all are dealing with
after the WTC terrorist attack is more along the lines of racial profiling
of Muslim/middle-eastern people. I do it now and think everyone else of
sound judgment would too. If I am on a plane and some dude is sitting there
in a turban, you are darn right I am going to be edgy. In reality a
terrorist will not have a turban.... He will dress and act like a normal
American, but wish us destruction for a reason we do not understand and
cannot rationalize. 

From all of my knowledge and research the only way I know to stop the cycle
of terrorism is to exterminate the Taliban group and associated terrorist
network.

"violence IS NOT THE ANSWER". What is a better solution? Seriously, what
alternative do we as a society have?

We are at WAR! Our free civilized lifestyle that we all love and share is
under attack. It is time to dig in and protect our American soil at all
costs with tough decisions and sacrifices. Think like an animal up against
the wall, do you fight or cower and be slaughtered?

Personally I am very surprised that the work and student VISAs have not been
revoked for individuals from terrorist countries. The enemy is deeply
rooted within us. Please read the attached articles for more information.

Bus content: I would sacrifice my front bumper to run over Bin Laden or any
other member of the Taliban group :) Also I would like to see discussion
of this topic since I think this mailing list is not only about busses, but
our small piece of culture/family which has been impacted by this
tragedy.... Thom, please lift the "ban" so we can share and work out our
fears, ideas, and sorrows.

Food for thought, two articles: 
Terror, Inc.
By Mindy Belz 
They have failed so many times. But they are patient. 
1999. Abu Nasir, a 27-year-old from Bangladesh, entered India with the
intent to bomb U.S. diplomatic missions in India and Bangladesh. With him
was a contingent of highly trained terrorists from Egypt, Sudan, Pakistan,
India, and Afghanistan. 
Mr. Nasir himself since 1990 had been part of this extensive network of
terrorist organizations-under the leadership of Osama bin Laden. Talent
scouts recruited him first for administrative duty in mujahideen training
camps of Pakistan and Afghanistan. Next he received specialized weapons
training in Afghanistan and intelligence-gathering courses in Pakistan. 
By the end of the decade he was heavily involved in cross-border operations
in India, and ready for a select assignment. Among other targets, he and his
associates were to load explosives onto a Jeep that made daily visits to the
Bank of America office located inside the U.S. consulate in Chennai, India. 
Chennai and other U.S. targets in India never made headlines because Abu
Nasir was arrested in New Delhi carrying four pounds of explosives and five
detonators. His case-along with the trial earlier this year of four bin
Laden associates convicted in New York City of plotting to kill Americans in
U.S. embassy bombings-has provided courtroom glimpses into a bin Laden
underworld that spans the world. 
Mr. bin Laden has transformed the terrorism industry with an international
network that includes terrorist cells and training camps operating from the
Middle East to the Philippines. These are not wild-eyed pistol wavers. Bin
Laden recruits are more likely to be multi-degreed professors (or commercial
pilots) than Islamic school dropouts or street criminals. Highly educated in
the best schools of Saudi Arabia himself, Mr. bin Laden over the years has
won to his cause doctors and other professionals from the Muslim world's
elite. His operations are fronted through Saudi charity organizations,
Sudanese banks, and London think tanks. 
The reach of that network could put him out of reach to U.S. law
enforcement. Mr. bin Laden has appeared on the FBI's Ten Most Wanted List
since 1998, when Bill Clinton singled him out for retaliation after over 200
people were killed in embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania. 
Will a homeland attack call for a new manhunt? Likely. Jihad terrorists,
however, have not been sitting on their Kalyshnikovs these three years.
Anti-American sentiment is well stoked, and nuclear, chemical, and
biological weapons likely now appear in their supply cabinet. 
At a three-day terrorist convention of sorts held earlier this year in
Beirut, Mr. bin Laden's Al-Quaeda organization joined forces with Hamas,
Islamic Jihad, and Hezbollah to pledge themselves to joint jihad, or holy
war. Their immediate aim: the destruction of Israel. But why stop there? 
That Beirut declaration of war did not make front-page headlines in the
United States. Now Mr. bin Laden has achieved a major victory and won the
attention of the world. World War II cost six years of blood, sweat, and
tears, and millions of lives. What will this war cost? 

How Do Terrorist "Cells" Work?
By Dahlia Lithwick
Posted Monday, Sept. 17, 2001, at 3:32 p.m. PT 

News reports have attributed the planning and execution of the World Trade
Center and Pentagon bombings on terrorist "cells." What are terrorist cells,
where do they come from, and how do they work? 
Among the first revolutionaries to organize conspiracies into secret cells
was Louis Auguste Blanqui, a socialist of the Napoleonic and post-Napoleonic
era. The basic principle behind cell organization is simple: By dividing the
greater organization into many multiperson groups and compartmentalizing
information inside each cell as needed, the greater organization is more
likely to survive if one of its components is compromised. 
Anarchists and revolutionaries in Russia, Ireland, France, Germany, and
Switzerland adopted cell organization in the 1880s, as did the communist
movement in the late 19th century, because they are remarkably difficult for
foes to penetrate. We know from previous criminal investigations that Osama
Bin Laden organizes his terrorists into cells. Had U.S. intelligence
infiltrated one of the terrorist cells responsible for last week's attacks,
they might have learned only of the proposed date of an attack but not the
target, the time, or the means of the attack. 
Like communist cells, Osama Bin Laden's terrorist cells intend to overthrow
existing governments. But unlike the communist cells, which were highly
organized and specialized, Bin Laden's cells may be extremely ad hoc in
function. A planning cell for one operation may be tapped as an execution
cell for the next. 
"Planning" or "support" cells may have fewer than 10 members, often local
residents from Islamic nations, responsible primarily for fund raising. They
may also be responsible for providing execution cells with drivers'
licenses, cash, credit cards, or lodging, as well as procuring materials for
bomb building. 
The members of "sleeper" or "submarine" cells may have lived in the target
country for years, doing nothing until activated. According to one of Bin
Laden's former aides, there are hundreds of "sleeper" terrorists across the
United States. This is why several suspects from last week's attacks had no
prior FBI record. 
"Execution cells" are brought in at the final stages of an attack. They will
utilize resources supplied by other cells. Several of the hijackers from
last week's attack arrived in the United States in August. 
"Operation commanders" may come in only at the last moment before the
attack. They may be the only link between local cells and the larger
umbrella organization--in this case, the central Bin Laden organization. The
commander may not even perform the operation himself, often leaving the
country before the terrorist attack occurs. Terrorism experts are certain a
commander watched this week's attack and has escaped with the help of other
U.S. cells. The commanders of both the first World Trade Center bombing in
1993 and the bombing of the U.S. embassy in Kenya are college graduates,
multilingual, computer literate, and still at large. Osama Bin Ladin's role
in these operations was probably limited to serving as front man, financier,
and publicist


God Bless,
Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Westi "Biscuit"
1979 Porsche 911 SC 

On the gravytrain to biscuitville!


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com



---------------------------------
Terrorist Attacks on U.S. - How can you help?
Donate cash, emergency relief information inYahoo! News.
--0-2012337096-1001021704=:30983--
