From: jbrush(-at-)aros.net
Date: Sun, 23 Mar 2003 19:22:52 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Oil Thermal Breakdown

In <1048471200.96031.ezmlm(-at-)type2.com>, on 03/24/03 
   at 02:00 AM, type2-digest-help(-at-)type2.com said:

>It's important to remember that at 250F they are talking about petroleum
>based oils only. Synthetics are designed to run up to 300F which make
>them ideal for any VW and why every air-cooled Porsche uses that oil
>especially any car running on the racetrack.

Ideal if you have a VW that doesn't leak, use, or burn oil its ideal.  
:-)

My van does not leak a drop, according to my garage, and the plugs are
just about perfect, no sign of any oil in the combustion process, but it
will usually use a quart every few hundred miles on the freeway, a bit
less around town. Beats me where it comes from, or where it goes <shrug>
After a long trip, there is evidence of oil on the rear hatch. Not much,
certainly not 5 quarts worth. A trip to Jackson Hole from Utah would cost
me about $25 in synthetic oil :-) I'll pass. 

The sage old wonderkids on the vanagon list seem to agree that switching
to synthetic in an older engine is not a good idea.

>One interesting article I've read explained how NY taxi fleets use
>synthetic oil. They change it at 60k miles but change the filters every
>6k miles. Petroleum oil in the same cabs require 3k miles oil change
>intervals. I don't know the source but it seems like a great testing
>environment.

I wonder how they came up with the 3K number, and would they be inferring
that the synthetic oil at 60K protects better than dino stuff at 4K? Seems
like a huge disparity. Tough to really test, I would bet.

>Synthetic oil can apparently run for 25k miles in your engine but no
>manufacturer wants you to know that because they'll sell less oil. They
>only real way to know if the oil is your engine is up to snuff at 250F
>plus is to have it tested, like they do for small airplane engines. If
>you are really concerned, it can cost as little as $20 to find out.

I would not expect a filter to keep the oil clean enough to allow it to
run 60K miles. Seems to me the breakdown of the oil is just one issue that
calls for frequent changes. Synth oil might still have its viscosity up to
spec after 20k or 30K, but it would certainly be badly contaminated with
dirt, gasoline, minute metal parts, and other lovely pollutants that would
affect its ability to lubricate properly. Seems risky, but then nearly
every cab, van, and car is used differently, and its hard to find real
hard, empirical evidence of exactly what is the best for each engine. 

At least with the way my engine goes through oil, I don't worry about it
breaking down, as much as I do running out!

John
