From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Mar 2003 08:37:57 -0500
Subject: CF&Son T2 Projects

Thought that I'd post an update on the current T2 projects that we're
working on...

- All Reflector and Taillight Lenses: Scheduled for early summer.

- Hatch Hinge Covers: Still only a maybe.  There seems to be a possibility
that someone is (or is planning on) producing these via vacuum forming, and
I don't want to invest time & dollars into casting them unless there's a
good chance that they will sell.  Granted, I'd beef them up a bit and maybe
add a widget for securing a net between the two, but only if there's really
a market for them.

- Headlight "Pupil": The product of way too many reruns of "Herbie tLB"
films.  Just toying with the idea of a translucent "pupil" that would give
the effect that bus headlights are "eyes".  Probably not DOT allowable, but
if it was, it would look sorta cool.  Assorted colors, eyebrows optional...

- Headlight "Tear": Another, "Just a thought".  This one would be an easy
"do", but I've not quite figured out the significance of the crying VW bus,
yet.  Anyone want to clear up my ignorance?

- Heater Levers: The masters are nearly complete.  I should be pouring the
production molds this week.  They'll probably sell in sets of three (2-red,
1- blue), for $12.00 US.

- Horn Button: May have found a workable method of reproducing the spring
clip.  Will probably pour the mastering mold this week.

- Long Stem Rear View Mirror:  About halfway through the mastering process.
Will be adding the "rubber baby buggy bumper" thing this week.

BTW, I'm assuming from the diagrams that this thing is adjustable, right?
That you can rotate the "thumbscrew" (?) in order to set the rubber bumper
against the windshield (presumably to damp vibrations)?  Anyone out there
know what the bumper was made of?

- `77 (only?) Clear Fuse Cover: Waiting on the gracious folk who are sending
original covers.

- VW Nose Logo Replacement: Giacomo's is missing, and until I find a tire
mount for him. I'm toying with a few ideas for a non-VW replacement for the
missing logo.  Suggestions welcome.  Yes, I did think about bus club logos.

(I need a shrink.  The first thing to pop into my mind was an elephant's
trunk.  But unless you're Sharon, Lois and Brahm, a bus painted to look like
an elephant is probably not an option.  Then there's the spinning propeller,
the jet engine intake, and the X-Wing laser cannon...  [wanders off softly
singing to himself, "Skinnamarinkydinkydink, Skinnamarinkydoo..."])

- Westy Tent Clip: Waiting on the gracious folk who are sending original
clips.

- (Pending): I'll announce this one when I've confirmed that I will be able
to obtain an original to begin the mastering process with.

That's all for now. :O)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
