Date: Mon, 24 Mar 2003 08:27:59 -0600 (CST)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Nancy Hopping <hopping(-at-)mindspring.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Front Door Window Rubber Replacement Problems

Nancy,

Just did this on my 78 this weekend.  Your 73 may be different, but i 
doubt it.

Window lifter mechanism in first.  Mine fits *under* the inside lip
of the door frame!

Outer scraper in next....very carefully and gently.  First one took
an hour, the second one took 10 minutes.  I bent the two tabs on the front
around the inside window frame edge, but not sure ifthat is correct or 
not.

Window in the door from the top, but not connected to anything...pushed to 
the rear and down as much as possible.

Use a piece of wood as you gently pull the inner and outer
skin of the door apart a little in order to get the bottom part of
the vent window in...slide it forward and push hard to get the new
rubber to seal well.  Bottom bolt in wing vent, push more and get the top 
screw inserted and tightened.  Yes, you *are* probably going to scratch 
the inside of the new paint a little, but it gets covered up anyway.

Now for the really hard part...the inner scraper...took me 2 hours to do 
mine as I was afraid to bend the stupid little wires...finally got one
in and thought the other would be a breeze as it seemed to be easier if
it was stable.  Start from the *rear* and work forward because of the way
the wire is made, it needs to be loose on the front edge to bend easier.
Don't ask me how I know!

Have your dremel tool handy, cause none of the aluminum holes/slots
matched where the retaining clips for the window channel goes.  Hog them 
out a little and get those retaining clips in there.  Watch for scraping 
the paint on this as a steady hand is needed.  

Lift the window up and loosely position it against the lower edge of the 
vent wing window guide and attach it to the lifter.  Find your old window 
channel and cut the length to match the new one....my new one was about 4 
inches to long.

Go down the length of the window channel and gently spread it open a 
little so that it would get squeezed together when you put it in the 
frame.  Slide it down the rear of the window as far as you can and then 
start working it into the clips and frame starting from the went window.

Do *not* use anything to push in the center of it to push it into the 
clips and frame, use your fingers on the edges only.

Now readjust the window so that it slides correctly up and down!

That's it....hope I didn't forget anything!

Cheers, dave


-- 
[...]-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Sun, 23 Mar 2003, Nancy Hopping wrote:

> I have a 73 Westy. I ordered all new front door window rubber for it, which
> comes with no directions on how to put it together.
> 
> We were able to get the vent wing reassembled, but can't seem to get it to
> seat in the door with the window lifter mechanism in place. And we can't get
> the window lifter mechanism in place if the vent window is installed.
> 
> Any suggestions? TIA for your help.
> 
> Thanks!
> 
> Nancy
