From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Mar 2003 12:05:27 -0600
Subject: HVWs Drag Day #3 (-at-) Irwindale

	Greetings List!

	For G&S I took the ol' 72 Weekender out to DD#3 on Sunday to hoist
the banner for Bay Window buses in the Bus class...

	Had some fun, learned a thing or two about bracket racing a bus, met
some great folks, handed out a mess o' "Save the Bays!" stickers, and got a
sunburn...

	What did I learn?

	1)  A 2055 Type 4 motor is NOT a drag-race motor (everybody knows
that, and I merely proved it to myself...), but that 228mm clutch makes for
a sweet launch on the track...  I was out in the first round of
eliminations.  I'm taking the 2260 next time ;-)

	2)  My reaction times bl*w and/or s*ck, but I did get better each
and every time I ran...

	3)  The crowd of bus pilots was, is and always will be an extremely
convivial crew.  I wish I could say that for the kids that moved the table
reserving space for me in the parking lot at the STBs pit area.  I hope they
didn't take my threat to run over their b*gs seriously, but they did look a
little frightened when I told them their lowered b*g would look cute under
my bus.  Young 'uns:  A table/chair in a parking place next to a passel of
buses means someone else is going to be parking there, m'kay?

	4)  I sure some will take me to task over this, but drag-racing as a
spectator sport is insanely boring, especially when you go out in the first
round of eliminations.  As in hours of standing around in abject boredom
(opposable digit firmly planted in an orifice of your own choosing),
punctuated by approximately 13.5 seconds (times 3) of sheer terror.  This is
really true when: you drove your bus there and you start remembering that
crossbar engine rubber mount looked like it had dissolved in contact with
motor oil...

	5)  Would I do it again?  Probably!  If for no other reason than to
just be out there and chat with the other bus folks...

	Hats off to all bus folks who joined us - hope you had as much fun
as we did!  Hats off twice to Ronnie F. for sponsoring the class - otherwise
we would have been getting killed in Trophy 2.

	Jim Hayden
	"Drag the Bays!"
	13.20 Dial In, 1.160 R/T, 13.556(-at-)49.09mph 1/8 mile - didn't win...
	www.savethebays.org
