From: "Sharpe, Steven (Facilities Planning)" <SSharpe(-at-)fac.unc.edu>
To: 'Greg Thompson' <gthompso(-at-)mailer.fsu.edu>, type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Date: Tue, 6 Aug 2002 10:52:02 -0400 
Subject: RE: [T2] Bus Clocks

Don't throw that non-functioning clock away. A lot of times the problem is a
piece of low temperature solder that is used as a fuse. Once it melts or
breaks the clock stops. The following website goes over the repair
http://www.nateswaterart.com/vw/vdo_repair/

The website shows the clock totally taken apart with just the clock
mechanics shown. One does not have to take the clock completely apart. Most
fixes only require the removal of the back plastic cover.

One other item that's not mentioned on the website that I found I had to
correct was lubricating the adjustment knob stem seals front of the clock.
If you look behind the front adjustment knob at where the stem passes
through the glass, you'll see that there are a set of seals that keep dust
out. My seals were so dry that they actually kept the clock mechanism from
being able to move the hands of the clock. A couple of drops of silicon
lubricant fixed this.  
 
These clocks are very robust mechanical devices. Many times nothing besides
the solder fuse is wrong. I bridged the broken solder fuse with wire and
plan to install an in-line microampere fuse when I put it back in my bus.
Right now it sits in my kitchen while I tweak it so it keeps accurate time.

-----Original Message-----
From: Greg Thompson [mailto:gthompso(-at-)mailer.fsu.edu]
Sent: Tuesday, August 06, 2002 10:18 AM
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: [T2] Bus Clocks


hey listees!

In my desperation to install a clock in my 74 single cab, I had to get 
innovative.  I earlier purchased a gray faced clock from a fellow listee 
which did not work when I received it (through no fault of the seller).  I 
later purchased a black faced clock (which does work) from another very 
nice listee.  I simply took the gray face off the non-working clock and put 
it on the working clock!  The faces are identical in every way except the 
color.  All in all, not too complicated.  Just a thought for those also 
trying to find clocks that work.  Greg


'74 Single Cab (with working clock)
'02 Jetta TDI wagon
