Date: Sun, 10 Dec 2006 08:02:18 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vw(-at-)radom.org
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com, ronnie <vwtgs(-at-)aol.com>
Subject: Re: [T2]vaccum brakes

hey ronnie and dan
   
  yeah i sure did learn something here about brakes. I got a few more metal lines ot replace now so should go like a breeze now that i knwo i was doing it all right but confused myself with that little cap....
  its really even sadder cause i knew better but forgot to check it looking for something to be the bigger problem not looking for something that simple. 
   
  i had mark dearing and phil cain both tell me long time back now this but that was then and this is now. I do believe i got it now guys ;) wont ever forget it again. ;)
   
  ronnnie buddy i am sure glad i dont do this for a living. Just trying to find parts in my neck of the woods is bad enough much less having to work on someone elses vehicle besides my own. my two here the 68 beetle and 76 bus both throw "tantrems" i like to call it all the time and out of know where always spontaneous like.
  dealing with on a greater level i think might turn my brain into jello.
   
  but on a second note i am glad you fellows are still out there for us the VW commmunity.
   
  the vw dealership down the road from me wont even work on my bus cause of its year and cant get most of the parts for it and always tell me they are obsolete and such to call a junkyard if i have to. so yeah i try not ot call them for anything.... the only other place around here that works on older air cooled water cooled vw dubs in about 45 minutes from me in greenville,easley,geer, and only out of those two would i trust with my bus to do anything... phil cain and charlie mitchell.
   
  so if this explains anything to anyone about why i must do my own work on my vehicle cause it is just such a stretch to find a local shop in my area. Theres one  other 1 mile down the road here which is only like a tease sometimes being that close but i dont think he is open at all no more after having health problems. 
   
  chai

dan radom <vw(-at-)radom.org> wrote:
  Chai wrote:
> i would just like to let know that the resovoir cap must have a clean hole through it or it will cause you all sorts of problems....
> 

Chai,

As I recall there was a thread here (thesamba perhaps) where someone 
mentioned acceptable items to use as a replacement for the cap, and the 
importance of the hole was mentioned. Like all others this lesson is is 
only painful the first time. On the plus side you probably have a 
thorough understanding of the VW braking system now.

cheers,

dan



                                                          1976 HighTop 
  1968 Beetle 
