Date: Fri, 15 Dec 2006 17:01:28 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Lee Pedrazas <lapedrazas(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: What would you do?

I'm trying to decide what to do with my 77 automatic camper. 

It has some major cancer in the back battery panels up to the side 
lights on the back.  The front needs to be replaced because someone 
backed into it and the tire carrier dented in the front and lots of rust 
has formed.  There is also major rust just under the windshield.  There 
are various dents around the bus from what appears to be a pellet of bb 
gun and there is surface rust in many places where the panels join together.

It does not run at the moment, but the previous owner had it running.  
It sat in my driveway too long without being driven and now it will not 
idle.  When I first got it, it would stall when put into reverse.  The 
local VW mechanic believes it to be an air leak after hearing my 
description of the previous reverse problem and from my desription of 
how it sounds when it is starting.

The engine *looks* to have been rebuilt recently as it's still very 
pretty and has a new distributer, coil, points, etc.  The interior is in 
pretty good shape.  All equipment there and clean, even the original 
curtains.  Tires are shot. 

I can't decide what to do with it.  I think the rust is a little too 
much to be repaired on a budget.  I talked to a guy at a local bodyshop 
(not a restoration shop) and my local mechanic and the general consensus 
is that I should begin to look for a new body. 

So, do I need to find a body that is made for the auto shifter or are 
all of the bodies built the same?  Will my shifter fit into the same 
place as the clutch?  If so, is it worth trying to find an auto body?  
They seem pretty rare...

Should I strip off all of the good parts and trash the bus?  I really 
believe that the engine and transmission are still good.  I never heard 
any nasty sounds from the transmission...  All of the camper parts are 
there and I would want to save them...  the curtains, the seats, even 
the chairs.  If I was to go this route, what should I save?  I don't 
have room to store two buses unfortunantly. 

I want to stay with a camper...

Whatever I end up doing, I only have 2000 to spend right now.  Am I 
dreaming?

Thanks for reading this far.  All advice appreciated.

Lee
