Date: Mon, 26 Jul 2004 22:15:11 -0700
From: Eric Sedgley <esp(-at-)designthebest.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: A little advice

I think I need some friendly advice, or perhaps a bit of a pat on the
back or kick in the rear.

Over the past few weeks I have barely touched the Bus, aside from to
completely clean out all the junk and tools and parts out of the thing.
I took a little drive over to a used Bus dealership and service center,
Shaffner Motors. I must say, I was either talking to the wrong person,
or just got a bad taste in my mouth about the whole place. I talked to
the lady who was in charge of the used Bus lot part on a Saturday, when
nobody was in the service center part. It rather annoyed me when she
completely dissed my bus and asked why I was even bothering putting
money into it. (not that I haven't asked myself the same question.)

Speaking of which, I am really up in the air about continuing on it.
Part of me wants to drop the engine, replace some soft engine parts such
as fuel hoses, clean up the engine tin and engine compartment a bit, and
plop it back in, just for s&g. Another part of me wants to take a bunch
of pictures of it with the camera, and post it online for sale, and try
to scrape a few hundred dollars out of it.

I have recognized that the bus will never be very pretty, and there's
way too much rust to seriously attempt body work. While the glass in the
windows is fine, the seals are going to hell, and I would have to weld
patches around the edges of each window in order to even put them back
in. They are in right now, and I have no plans on taking them out. While
I'm not apparently in imminent danger of falling through the floor,
there is enough rust that it really would be pretty pointless to bother
with any body restoration.  Funny thing is, it is still obviously blue
and white, not just rusty brown colored.  I have seen far worse. So, do
I take advantage of having it currently *running* (although not
charging! Still haven't figured that problem out!) and sell it off, or
do I have a little fun and blow a little cash making something run
perhaps a little better or worse than it is already, just with newer,
cleaner parts? I don't know. I have no idea how I am going to arrive at
a decision.  I just don't want to ruin any chance I have at selling it
by dropping the engine and making it a rusty, *non-running* bus.  Darn. 

>>Eric Sedgley
