Date: Tue, 27 Jul 2004 08:24:48 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>, Randall Carpenter
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Used motor startup

I'm arriving a bit late to this thread and I do not know your abilities but here is my 101 version... Not in any particular order b/c I'm at work and writing a little at a time.

Crank the engine with the ignition disabled so you build up oil pressure before you actually start it. Start it, idle fast (helper's eye on the idiot light or better yet make yourself an oil pressure gauge from pieces from the Co-Op (I can elaborate) you can watch while you are at the engine. That way you can spot engine problems and leaks and see the pressure) for a few minutes to sling oil on the cylinders and get oil to the heads. 

I would prob oil the valve train by hand before you start it. My version would be to remove the rocker arms and clean/oil/grease everything and then reassemble it. If you can't (if it is technically over your head - no pun intended!) then oil everything a bit. 

Afterwards watch the oil. Once it is black enough that you can't see the marks on the dipstick, change it. You can't change it too soon... 

Remove oil screen and clean, and change filter if equipped, and replace oil. You can't do it too soon. I would change it everytime it gets filthy for the first few times. Might be 50 miles the first time, 1000 miles the second time and 2000 miles the 3rd time. Just depends on how dirty it is. Synthetic will REALLY clean it out in my experience but at $25 an oil change, it might be a bit too expensive to use for short changes. 

I usually take my engines down and out and scrub all the tin (and sometimes paint them), scrub the engine down, and replace every gasket and seal I can get to (engine, exhaust, oil seals, etc.). Also ensure the cooling fins are clean too. Another item I do is rotate the engine a bit with some oil in it on an engine stand so the valve covers fill with oil. You can do this on the ground of course. Allow to sit for a while in each position so each valve cover fills and then finally sit flat so any debris settles in the bottom of the engine. I like to think the debris gets caught by the filter while I am cold cranking it before I try to start it. 

With a gauge I crank in 30 second bursts until the pressure tops out. Then maybe one or two more 30 sec cranks. 

My old engines also get a tune up (with some new ignition parts or rebuild the carb if it needs it). 

While the engine is out, inspect your clutch, throw-out bearing (add some lube, replace the input shaft seal, clean and lube the starter, lube the ring gear just a bit, replace the tranny oil, etc. Also a good time to fix rust in the battery trays and paint engine or engine compartment. Makes it really nice to work on. Finally replace any rusty or bent hardware with new. Most hardware stores have what you'll need for basic fasteners (muffler bolts, etc.) Do not of course use hardware store variety bolts for the engine assembly hardware. They aren't hard (strong) enough. 

Chris
'78 Westy w/Corvair implant
'65 Beetle w/Type IV implant
'99 CR-V
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
wife, child, dogs, and various slightly used cats
