Date: Tue, 27 Jul 2004 08:27:56 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] oh no, not another TDC thread....

I got a few ~"thanks for asking, its confused me too"~ p-mail messages,
so I figured I'd just post what I did to find TDC on a type4 / pancake
motor circa 1972 where there were no clear timing marks (or far too
many of them) on the pulley / fan. BTW, I did pull the fan hoping to
find the VW mark. Unfortunately, a PO had made plenty of marks on the
_frontside_ of the fan (FIF) with a chisel as well. Great stuff. What I
did: 
1) drew a line from the little tick in the hub out to the edge of the
pulley/fan as per the library. Made a mark with a little white-out.
2,3) pulled the #1 spark-plug and did the "object in the hole" trick,
making marks where the "0" on the timing scale was on the pulley. There
were 2 marks, one where the piston changed direction coming up to apex
and one going down from apex. These marks appeared on either side of
the hub-line mark (#1).
4,5) pulled the valve cover from the driver's side. I crawled around
the rear corner to where I could push on the rockers. Though this trick
says to watch the movement, I found my fingers worked better than my
eyes. I cranked the engine back and forth, pressing on the cyl #3
rockers until I could just move the intake, but not the exhaust. made a
mark. then I moved the engine back and forth until I could just move
the exhaust, but not the intake. made a mark. Between these marks, I
was unable to move either rocker.
Ok, now I have 5 marks. Confusing? Yeah, a little. fortunately, I knew
which ones were made when. marks 4 & 5 were not around the hub mark
(#1), but they were between marks 2 & 3. I figured these (4&5) were the
most reliable as they were also the closest together (less than an
inch). I scraped off all of the marks except marks 4&5. Then, made a
final mark equidistant between them, and removed 4&5 as well. This
final mark was a few degrees clockwise in front of the (now removed,
but still slightly visible) #1 mark.
I static-timed the motor by dizzy (7.5btdc for ACN's SVDA), and it ran
very well this morning... until I got to the big hill on the
interstate, but I think that's related to 2 things that need to be
done: use a timing gun to time it while running and re-tune the Weber
after fiddling.
Otherwise, it ran very well on the interstate flats and around town
regardless of incline. If anyone sees a glaring error in this method of
blending the 3 popular processes, please let me know. I'll be
strobe-light checking the timing tonight, BTW.
Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (hapy)
1700 32/36 Weber carb, ACN SVDA dizzy
