From: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Date: Tue, 27 Jul 2004 18:49:00 -0700
To: Colby Simpson <misteremachine(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] intake leaks?

Okay. The warning was correct. A vacuum leak can cause your engine to 
run lean, and lean running can melt your pistons in no time. So you 
want to fix this.

The first thing you want to do is to get a vacuum test gauge and splice 
it into your vacuum system. You want to see about 15 psi of vacuum. 17 
psi is better (I think these numbers are right; I'm drawing on memory. 
Check the archives, or maybe someone else will correct me).

There is a chance that you have just one leak. There is a much better 
chance that you have two or more small leaks. The three most obvious 
places to check first are, in order:

1) an EGR valve and plumbing that are missing or have been incorrectly 
installed. Your EGR has to be tight from the exhaust up into the 
plenum. If it has been removed, make sure that the place where the EGR 
joined the plenum is tightly sealed.

2) Hoses and connections.

3) The diaphragm in your air filter. To check this, disconnect the 
vacuum hose from the other end and suck on the tube. The diaphragm 
should close up. If it doesn't, that's a major leak.

The way I test all the hoses and connections is by running the engine 
and spraying a little carb cleaner through the provided pipe toward the 
connection. If the connection is tight, this shouldn't effect how the 
engine runs. If there is a change, you've probably identified a leak.

Keep doing this until you have checked every vacuum hose and pipe, then 
started making repairs. With each change, you should notice an increase 
in vacuum on the gauge.

The way that you can check everything without carb cleaner is with a 
stethoscope, although there are some places in the system that make a 
tremendous wooshing sound that confuses things (the connection between 
the throttle body and the plenum is one of these).

If you play electric guitar, you should get a stethoscope anyway. When 
you're done testing for leaks, tape the head of the stethoscope to the 
body of the guitar and wail!

Mark "I can turn my stethoscope up to 11" Hineline


On Jul 27, 2004, at 6:08 PM, Colby Simpson wrote:

> '79...fuel injected...$25 is quite possible for me right now
