Date: Thu, 14 Aug 2003 16:16:59 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bahia Honda (was Re: [T2] She doesn't want to go

> Ahh, Bahia Honda.  I slept there 4 nights in my drive-away tent a few  years
> ago.  Trouble was, at the time I didn't have a bus - but the tent  looked
> good even next to a Pr*lude.  I had a site on the bay, facing  the bridge;

After spending three solid days there, I think Bahia Honda is one of the
greatest parks around. It is small and it doesn't have the majesty of the big
parks out west. But it is incredibly comfortable and there is plenty to do. I
took the snorkel trip to the Florida Reef one day - what an experience!

> We've got a FL panhandle equivalent up here in Panama City - St.
> Andrews State Park.  Plenty of sites right on the Grand Lagoon, with  grass
> flats  right offshore and tropicals in the rocks at the jetty.   Tie your
> skiff up within 10 yards of the tent.

St. Andrews is awesome. I used to camp there as a kid and the last time I went
back to PCB, I stayed there. I've had friends go down to Panama City Beach and
I'd always tell them to stay at St. Andrews. At least one of them didn't even
check out the park until their last day and was quite disappointed that they
held off. The draw of the 'Miracle Strip' is usually too much for most people
(and I usually recommend Sunday brunch at the Treasue Ship). And St. Andrews
is only really nice from about April to early July. Late July and August are a
bit too hot and it's jellyfish season. Grand Lagoon also has more problems
with mosquitos. But the little jetty-sheltered bay is great if you have little
ones who can't deal with the surf on the open Gulf water and the jetty
provides great snorkeling.

I was pretty impressed with the park on Edisto Island in South Carolina as
well. Of course, I was there for Freeze Yer Toe in February and it was too
cold to really enjoy the park. But I did spend a couple hours on the beach in
the sun and hiked around looking for clam beds.

-- 
www.bradway.net
