Date: Wed, 19 Jul 2006 17:08:36 -0400
From: Bob Haufler <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Pain(t)/body

Do any body shops paint cars any more?

I called two just now and I was told that they only do collision work and will
not paint a whole car.  One guy said he would want $5000 to paint my van that
I should call MAACO or some guy out in the country somewhere that I cannot
find on yahoo yellow pages.

Crap.  I am worried that my helper body/paint guy is too freaking slow.  His
shop it full of cats and 'vetts.  Cats and painting cars seem like bad combo
to me.

He has had a nearly done '54 corvette in his paint booth for months.   Not a
good sign.  He is good, damn good, but damn slow.  Interestingly, he drives an
L6 '70 Chevelle.  I saw on CNN.com that one of those sold at an auction for
$369K.

I hate to think that I am going to paint this thing outside.  All I need now
is paint and I can put this bastard back together.  I have had good luck with
the powder coating and ceramic coating folks though.  I just dropped off my
heat exchangers, heater control valves, heat riser tube, or whatever that
thing is the connects the heat exchangers to the heat control valves at
thermal tech coatings.  I think it will be great to have this stuff high temp
coated and not rusty and looking great for a bunch of years.  I will have
spent probably $2K on these coatings - bumpers, wheels, all engine tin, belly
pan, dash, windshield wipers, headlight mounting assemblies, gas tank
compartment cover, fan.  Bumpers look great - antique white, almost
indistinguishable from L90D.  I hate to think about all the trouble and
expense and time, and I will have a crappy paint job.  I am about to panic.  I
have got to find a way to motivate my man here.  Maybe I steal his chevelle
and hold it hostage.  If I had known how hard this was, I am not sure if I
would have done this.  At the very least, I probably saved an A/C VW from the
junk pile, or have nearly done so, if I can just make it to the finish line.
