Date: Sat, 07 Apr 2012 14:52:23 -0400
From: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Circle K Thirst Buster 64oz DIY Cup Holder

You know, we cannot protect ourselves from every possible danger.  Nor 
should we.  I've always believed that when it's your time to go, you're 
out of here.  We have to be sensible about things.  I'm strongly against 
seatbelt laws.  My boss' 79 years old dad was stopped the other day on 
his way to a retirement luncheon.  He got a ticket for the seatbelt and 
not having his insurance card on him.  Yet, had he been riding a 
motorcycle or the old classic Dodge that he restored, it would have been 
no problem.  And that was a state trooper!  What a waste of my tax 
dollars paying that guy's salary.  I say that everyone should exercise 
his own level of personal protection.  I try to always wear my 
seatbelt.  I'm even going to put in retractables because they do save 
lives in crashes.  But if I want to carry a 64-ounce mug, the 
convenience and enjoyment that I would get out of that (I wouldn't but 
my ex-wife sipped diet coke from one most all day) would greatly 
outweigh the minute risk that I would run into something hard enough to 
flip the bus and it end up hitting me or my precious passenger in the 
head.  After all, it is sitting on the floor between the seats if I read 
that right.  But I may not be qualified to talk about this subject.  I 
do ride a motorcycle and have been known to fly a hang glider off of 
Lookout Mountain.  I just trust my equipment, drive defensively at all 
times, and try to obey the rules.  Whatever I'm driving or flying.  Oh, 
I also love to scuba dive.  Unfortunately, it will probably be one of 
the big two that takes me out.  I'd really rather it be some other way.  
Somebody change the subject, please!  Thanks...KR

Kevin H. Roberts
76 Westy, 1.7, Baby Dels, 009, Body Rust, Character
Chattanooga, TN
Email:  Kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Website:  http://www.bopsax.com



On 4/6/12 9:44 PM, Mike Jackson wrote:
>> Please consider another way of keeping the drink secure.
