Date: Tue, 10 Apr 2012 11:54:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "cdquirkjr(-at-)gmail.com" <cdquirkjr(-at-)gmail.com>, type 2
Subject: Re: [T2] Exhaust leak

I have no idea what Richards tips are but there are pretty much 3-4 things to
gaurantee sucess.
 
1. Drill out mounting bolt holes in the header flanges
slightly.  They are hard as hell, so good bits only may apply.  Drill them to
the next US size over whatever fits through at present (which can
vary, probably about 23/64.)
2. Ensure the flanges are in plane.  It is not
enough, or even prudent just to true up one flange surface at a time because
they warp out of plane with each other.  Best bet here is simply run both
simultaneously on a nice long belt or large disc sander (woodworking sort)
that can contact both simultaneously.  Attempt to maintain perpedicular to
the bolt holes (leave a drill bit in backwards when sanding to show you the
angle of the bolt hole), but the fact you enlarged them helps, plus you aren't
already perpendicular to both with them warped with one bolted down compared
to the other anyway.  Fortunately the '72-'74 and '79-'83 systems seem to do
better than the header tubes, but you NEED to do this as the most important
step.
3. Ensure copper rings are annealed, don't by any means assume this
because they are new.  They need to clunk not tink when dropped on something
hard.  If they aren't, anneal them (google annealing copper head gasket.)
4.
Consider WURTH exhaust paste.  Bob Donalds put me onto this years ago, it is
sort of the icing on the cake, not needed, but sure doesn't hurt, and the $12
or whatever a tube is up to will last you a lifetime.
 
Make sure of course
the studs were all in good shape, and particularly holding well into the
heads.  If they aren't take whatever steps you need to correct, oversize,
helicoil, welding, whatever.  I know this was actually one of the things that
began to frustrate Bob with type 4 core heads and why he quit rebuilding them
a couple years before he passed.  It was one thing to have the seats pounded
and expected T4 cracks, but when you had to fix 1-2 exhaust studs on a head as
well, you were really past the point of economic rebuilding sense.
 
John
----- Original Message -----
From: "cdquirkjr(-at-)gmail.com" cdquirkjr(-at-)gmail.com
 
Well after a long wet winter in the Pacific Northwest I am finally  
finishing
installing my new engine. This is my first rebuild and I am  
having trouble
getting a good seal on my heat exchangers to the cylinder  
head. I followed
Richard Atwell's instructions and that helped, but I am  
still struggling.
Are there any other good tips or tricks? I am putting a  
rebuilt 1800 into a
1973 van.
