Date: Mon, 25 Apr 2005 23:14:00 -0500
From: "gns.wagnon" <gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Puyallup Spring Meet - trip report

Volk-a-maniacs,

    Puyallup this weekend was pretty interesting.  We (3 buses - me and my
buddy in my '63 Panel/Camper, father in law in his '67 13 window Standard, and
Sister-in-law w/guest in one of their '66 Standard/Campers) drove up Saturday
to camp with the Wet Westies at Dash Point.  Rained like a driving next to
Eeyore all the way up from Portland.  Finally got to the campsite and it was
all full... darn.  I was looking forward to meeting a few people... but I also
didn't see anyone with a split there soooo, we went to go camp in the Puyallup
parking lot.  We got there, circled up the 3 busses into a triangle and moved
between them for various drinks and dinner items.

    We were soon joined by a couple of fellas from Eugene (Jason and Chris)
who camped next to us for the night... safety in numbers in the big city of
Puyallup I guess.  We continued to run into these fellas for the rest of the
weekend, we might have made a few friends out of the deal.  Cool.  Nice guys.
Anyway, we got up in the morning to some fog and a few glimpses of blue
breaking through.  During breakfast the weather gets better and better.  I
ended up with a slight sunburn for the day... very cool.

    The show started with a huge line... probably a good 1/4 mile of people
waiting in line... we were about 15th.  First thing we looked at were the
vehicles for sale.  A pretty nice camper with all the goodies was there.  Too
bad it wasn't a walkthrough or my father-in-law would have been all over it.
Then THERE IT WAS!  A single cab, a single cab with bullet blinkers, a single
cab with bullet blinkers for $3500.  Talking to the 'prior' owner, it had a
fairly newly rebuilt engine/tranny, new brakes, barely any rust, totally
strait in the cab, all original and all there.  Then he proceeds to show me
all the goodies he had in the bed of the truck.  Replacement rubber, and extra
set of side gates, a couple gallons of dove blue paint, a ton of little
replacement hinges, switches, screws, bolts, minor pieces.  Long story short,
it is parked in front of my house right now.  Yep, I am now the proud owner of
the 1959 Single Cab truck.  I had been looking for anything pre-61 for a
couple years now (I just love those bullet blinkers).

    We checked out the swap, got a bunch of random parts for sister-in-law and
guest's '66 busses (they have 2).  We only missed out on getting a couple of
bucket seats for the 2nd '66.  If anyone has a set for cheap, let me know
offline.  We were then done and getting ready to go, and ran into a bit of an
issue with sister-in-law's '66.  The hot wire from the starter into the fuse
box was not making contact with the fuse.  After some debug, we started poking
on that area and determined that corrosion had set in and it was time to
solder the rivets on the fuse box.  It's nice to have used some learnings from
this list to save the day 150 miles from home.  THANK YOU ALL!!!

The trip home was un-eventful... it was actually my first trip back from
Puyallup without any issues.  We've run into issues the last 3 times coming
back from there in my '63.  This time everyone ran like a dream.

Now, I am a satisfied VW owner.  I have the two vehicles I want and have only
to make them run well and look well too.  See ya on the road and happy
bussing!

Our - '67 or earlier club in the making...
Greg (Me)
    - 1963 Panel Camper conversion "Annie"
    - 1959 Single Cab truck "Yet to be named, but considering G|nter"
Father-in-Law
    - 1967 Standard 13 window "Helga"
Sister-in-law and her boyfriend
    - 1966 Standard Camper conversion "Jenny"
    - 1966 Standard Camper conversion "Old # 4 - to be given a real name after
we can drive it" - currently totally stripped waiting for blast and paint.
