Date: Tue, 26 Apr 2005 11:25:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>,  steve blackham
Cc: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] T4 bus engine in a Karmen Gia?

A Type IV engine in a Type I is no big deal. 

I'd go to www.shoptalkforums.com and start reading. READ before you question! The veterans are more helpful that way. Ask me how I know... <grin!> There is honestly enough info there already published to do this conversion. 

http://www.tunacan.net/t4/

http://www.t-34.fsnet.co.uk/type%204%20conversion.htm

www.ahnendorp.com (BAS) I bought several things from them. Like their stuff. 

Naturally look long at the links pages. 

I put a 2.0 in a 1965 Beetle without any trouble. The basic engine without cooling is about the same size and shape as the Type I. It will bolt to the Type I bellhousing. You'll need a KEP flywheel or you will need to make you own. 

Simply requires the center of the Type IV flywheel to be cut out and welded into the Type I flywheel. Then you use a Type I clutch/pressure plate. 

Cooling requires a bit more thought. I like the 911 replica cooling LOOKS but there is little provision for cold weather operation (heater outlets, thermostat controlled engine temp). There is also a belief held by some that the 911 version is inferior to the doghouse conversion, or the DTM (down through the middle) version, or a couple other solutions. YES the OEM Type IV cooling would fit but I THINK you'll have to cut the car. I wouldn't do that. Cut the engine cooling so that the next owner can just swap a Beetle motor back in if the Ghia is someday worth big bucks...  

Fuel: EFI (OEM or Megasquirt among others) or dual carbs. Tough to run a single carb in the middle. Buy the smallest carbs you can afford as you prob won't need a pair of 46MM Dells unless you build a MAJOR race engine. I run dual 36mm Dells and I like the Kadron single throats. Plenty of power and reasonable MPG. Without an airbox airfilter system they are noisier than the stock system. 

Exhaust: Unless you are building a major firebreathing race motor, aftermarket Beetle or Ghia systems will be enough for the 2.0. I bought a crossover pipe (no welder back then), and bolted it to a dual quiet pack system for my Beetle. This is a system that works with the Type IV heaters. Sounds great, cheap... Had to cut and rotate the flange on the crossover. I bought the "high-tuck" system which put the mufflers in the fenders. I tore off several of the low hanging systems when I lived over seas on bumpy roads and entering/exiting my driveway. 

Tranny: you've got lots of options but I found the 1969 Beetle tranny was geared too low. I used it b/c it came with the IRS pan I am using. I prefer the 3.88 gearbox found in the Ghia. 

Hope this helps! 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
'65 Beetle 2.0L

'99 CR-V (stock)
'97 VW Cabrio (stock)
