Date: Tue, 26 Apr 2005 12:43:07 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Electrical connection question - help requested

I'm working on a friend's '78 Riviera. Her ignition switch went dead. Replacing it and the main red wire's crimp connector has broken. I can go to the parts store (FLAPS) and buy a generic but what I need is the type with the little metal tang that points outward and snaps into the black plastic connector that pushes on the back of the switch. I can put it all together using a generic crimp connector under the dash if it is hanging free but once it is all attached to the steering column it does not want to go back together with the generic crimp connector on thatone wire. Using this methods I have to try to push that 1 wire into place by hand separately from the others. <Ugh!>

What are these crimp connectors called? The ones with the little metal tang sticking out on the side, female, slides on a male flat spade... 

http://www.delcity.net/delcity/servlet/catalog?parentid=185675&childid=186224&page=1&tabset=1

Except it doesn't have the tang... 

Auveco prob has it but I'll have to go through their paper catalog at home. 

Any suggestions for a source? NAPA says they can order something that LOOKS right (tought o tell in their tiny picture) but then again their's is for 14-16 ga wire and the big reg wire is 10-12 gauge. Radio Shack has pretty limited options and the sales people know even less than they did the last time I went in for something. The FLAPS don't have it and my 3 stops to local electrical and electronics specialists did not turn up anything. 

I think i could prob get it from Del-City or Auveco in quantities of 50 or 100... 

If I had a name for this I could hunt one down on the internet. 

Any other ideas that would enable me to install this with a generic crimp connector? I thought I'd go back and see if I can get any more slack in the steering column wiring so I could attach the wires before I installed the switch... 

Another option would be to make a short jumper wire so I could put it all together and it I ruined that jumper wire, no big deal. The OEM wire only has limited length so I don't want to shorten it everytime I make a mistake. 

Don't want to add any starter switches to the dash. Striving to keep to 100% OEM. 

Such a simple problem, and such an elusive item... 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L 
