Date: Tue, 26 Apr 2005 15:25:15 -0700
To: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>, "George Lyle"
Cc: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Pettibon, Jeremy" <jeremy.pettibon(-at-)cingular.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Electrolytic system update (also, ordered a new    

Most metals corrode when used as the anode (+ side; the rusty object
acts as the - side, or cathode) in an electrolytic system.  I was using
stainless steel, which does not.  The steel bolts and nuts I used to
connect the wires to the anodes did corrode, although they would not
have had they not been submerged.  I suppose a steel 55-gallon drum
would last a while since there is so much surface area, but it would
eventually wear through.  My challenge was to accomplish rust removal
without spending a lot of money or having to dismount the tires.  A
large drum would probably fit the tire-wheel combination (I let the air
out of the tire to decrease buoyancy and also to help it fit into my
32-gallon container), but I do not have room in my garage for that.

As to the liquid solution, I used Arm & Hammer Washing Soda, found in
the laundry/cleaning section of the grocery store.  (This was my only
expense - $2.35 for a big box I barely used.)  The solution is not
corrosive, only mildly basic, although I'm sure if you used enough soda
it could do some damage.  Recommended amount is about a teaspoon per
gallon, so I used about a half-cup, maybe a little bit more.

All in all, this was a pretty fun, although non-productive, experiment.
Any time I get to hang out in my garage and tinker with miscellaneous
stuff is time well-spent.  I created two prototype bamboo license plate
frames while my wheel was in the tank, plus I put together a good
portable tool kit to carry in the bus and I cleaned my workbench.  So
not totally worthless.

Thanks for the interest and feedback, guys.  And definitely let me know
if any of you try any other setups or methods that work better than mine
- I'd love to hear about it.

Jeremy
Bothell, WA
76 Westy


-----Original Message-----
From: Chris M. [mailto:busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Tuesday, April 26, 2005 3:07 PM
To: George Lyle
Cc: Pettibon, Jeremy; Dave C. Bolen; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Electrolytic system update (also, ordered a new
engine!)


I totally suffer from CRS...

What is in the liquid solution? Is this a situation where the barrel
gets rotted out after 3-4 uses? (thus making a huge mess?)

Chris
