Date: Tue, 26 Apr 2005 20:50:27 -0600
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Loss of power

It began yesterday.

I think my 73 is mad at me for spending a week in Cali. (And now I'm
heading for Cali again because my mom is sick. I'm flying back and
forth. $$$)

Started fine in the morning, nothing unusual. Stopped for smokes and
when I got back on the road there was a complete lack of power. Like I
was running on 3 cylinders, but it didn't *sound* like 3 cylinders.

Points are fine, good spark at the plugs. Fuel is pumping when I work
the accel pump. Oil is fine too. No gas smell either. I gave up and
headed to work. Problem suddenly stopped after 5 minutes or so of
driving.

Leaving work everything was fine. Dropped co-worker off at the hotel.
"I've never ridden in a VW van before. This thing is older than me!"
Sigh.

 When I started him up again, same symptoms. Plugs look ok (darker
than I would like though.) Went through the same routine, nothing I
can find.

So it sounds like fuel delivery to me.

When I stopped seeing large amounts of rust in my fuel filter I went
ahead and installed the metal can one I had been avoiding using
because of the rust issue. That was about 1000 miles ago. I'm going to
replace it this weekend along with the plugs. What I'm afraid of is
that it's my fuel pump going south.

Note that it only shows up when I start up after sitting for just a
few minutes. It does seem to clear itself eventually... 5 minutes or
so of driving.

Any ideas?

My possibles are: Fuel pump. Fuel filter. Fuel lines (reasonably
new... less than 2 years old). Carb solenoids. Coil. Not in any
particular order.

I have a coil to swap in. Actually 2 (do I need a ballast resistor for
a Mallory coil?) I have tons of solenoids, but I need to test 'em
before using. (WTF is the funky flat square one for? And why is there
an adjustment on it? No mention in Bentley that I saw...) I'll replace
the filter blind. It's cheap insurance.


--
Don
