Date: Wed, 27 Apr 2005 08:17:58 -0400
From: La Famiglia Fischer <fis(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: (Dash mounted table) BusDepot parcel tray in 76/79

Bonjour from Montreal!
Apologies, new to the list. Can't figure out how to reply directly to the subject above so I'm improvising.

Busdepot's underdash parcel tray does indeed have to be modified to fit certain situations.
Had to do it for my 77. The problem occurs when you have a bus that has the "handbrake ON" warning light switch and its related switch that lies at 10 o'clock to the handle shaft.
The central mounting component is supplied for the "non-switch". Hard to figure out how the manufacturer would not have seen that by now! You'd think that the designer would know that there is more than the one situation illustrated in the instructions! After all, it's bus-specific!
Anyhow, yes, it can be installed but some minor surgery of that central plastic bracket is required.
Just did it yesterday and I'm going to complete the installation this week.
Email me for pics of the part as modified.

But I'll give a brief-as-possible run down: what you need to do is open up that central hole from the as-supplied diameter to a larger (concentric) opening  _let's say by 1/16th on the diameter_ slightly larger than the round device that resides on the brake handle shaft and whose only purpose is to bear on that switch (10 o'clock) when the brake handle is all the way in ( brake "off").
There already is a hole in the part. Don't be tempted to use a hole-saw because there is no material for the pilot bit.
Trace/scribe the modification and cut it out by hand. I used a craft-type jigsaw where I could thread the blade through the original hole and proceed from there. I guess one could drill a number of small holes just shy of the desired size and use a round-back file or better, a sanding drum, to clean up the diameter.
With this first modification, you've NEARLY allowed the switch to be actuated. But not quite.
Position the bracket carefully and mark where you must remove some more material at that 10 o'clock position.
Use a round file (rat-tail) and remove a nice clean "bite" that allows the switch's tip actuator to pop through.

You'll probably have to do some back and forth dry-fitting but it will work out A-1!

Install the part as instructed (2 original bolts)
Slip on the round device, then the handle.
Drive in the roll-pin.
Done.

Mitch

(Someone please point me to a FAQ on responding directly to a topic from the web page where I read these...)
