Date: Sun, 12 May 2002 14:56:07 -0400
From: Jamie Rivers <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] leak down specs ?

"Dave C. Bolen" wrote:
 
> Interepretation is in percentages....good descriptions of it all over the
> net.  Some vary, but not much.  One site said that on his racing engine
> (new), that he had maybe 1% leakage.  This is probably way high though for
> even a newly rebuilt vw engine.

Well said!

Personally, I like uniform leak down,, just like compression ,, all cylinders
being equal is best,
The readings I usually get from leak down are about 10 - 15% leakage and is
usually rings , no valve leaks
When you have a vlave leak, you know it, as the leakage is much higher, and you
can hear the air in the muffler, or the air breather, instead of the oil filler
hole, or the pushrod tubes.

leak down is not the ultimate test,, it is just another tool in your diagnostic
box.... you can use it to tell some things about your engine,,

getting off on a tangent,,, 
Example,,, test an unknown engine, it is out of the car, on the floor, and the
F.I. is removed... 
It is hard to start and run this engine,, 
It is difficult to do a compression test, without a starter and trans etc..
It is EASY to visually inspect 
It is EASY to do a leak down

The readings I usually get from leak down are about 10 - 15% leakage and is
usually rings , no valve leaks, 
Works out to about 120 lbs compression on a good running engine.

Test results of this engine are 5% in all cylinders !! Right on! 
When I got it home, i decided to do a "reseal", -take the engine apart, and
install new gaskets, and seals, just to clean up a couple of leaks [weeping
spots] ..... 
Internal inspection showed main bearings , cam bearings, worn past specs, Hyd
lifters and cam have serious gouges in them. Valve guides worn well past specs

I am sure this engine ran fine,, had great compression, BUT, because I didn't
pull a lifter to have a visual inspection,, I bought an engine that needed a
complete rebuild
My fault entirely. fortunately I paid core price for it. 
I got excited by the low price and the GREAT test results, and forgot to do a
complete visual test!

Conclusion, the leak down tester is good to tell if you have good rings or valve
to seat seal or head to cyl leaks,,, A very good tool to diagnose that! Better
than a compression gauge, imho.

Jamie Rivers
