From: "Troy" <troy(-at-)wicals.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 12 May 2002 17:35:54 -0400
Subject: Troy's Engine Report

------=_NextPart_000_0012_01C1F9DB.7BC95270
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="iso-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

Hello all,
            Well, we just got back from Salem, VA where Mark Dearing and
Keith McDonald (and everyone else that hung out at the shop) helped me
drop my engine and get it fixed up.  As most will recall, my main issue
was a leak from the rear main seal.  I blew about 2 quarts of oil on the
trip up there *ouch*.  Anyhow, we arrived at Mark=92s shop at about 3am
and camped for the morning.  We woke up at about 9am and Keith let us
take his Wasserboxer to get breakfast.  All I can say is that machine is
awesome.  After getting back, we proceeded to get the engine mounts
unbolted and begin to get it out of the bus.  Taking it out was cake and
we did not take the tranny out with it.  Once it was out, we began
disassembling to get the clutch plate, old seal, etc  Mark handed me the
clutch plate and asked me if I saw anything that could be wrong.
Looking at it, I notiched a crack where the plate had actually separated
about a =BD inch.  It=92s a wonder I ever made it up there in the first
plate.  We also believe that my 5 hour trek to Circle Yer Wagons
included this damage.  We then got the flywheel out and resurfaced it
and began reassembling that area.  While the engine was out, I took the
opportunity to change all fuel lines and clamps, as well as the right
set of injector seals.  Then, the engine goes back in=85.this is where I
can see how a lift and a concrete surface is nice to have. (As well as a
couple extra hands.)  We worked it around until we were able to get
everything lines up and tightened.  Then put the tin back on, as well as
the new rubber engine seal I ordered.  After getting all the wiring and
the rest of the components hooked back up, we proceeded to try and start
the engine.  However, the engine had different plans.  It did not want
to turn over at all, however, it would fire when carb cleaner was given
a shot.  When hooking up the wires to the coil, I second guessed myself
and said that I believed one of the wires was in the wrong spot.  So we
put it on the other side but nothing happened.  After looking for an
hour at every other possible issue, the wire was put back on the other
side of the coil and it started.  (Again, I apologize  :-)  )  So, no
oil showing itself yet, but the engine was not running well at all.  By
now it had been a long day and we were all hungry so we went and got
pizza.  I drove the bus and immediately noticed that it was actually
running worse then it was when I first arrived.  After pizza we came
back to the shop and looked at the air flow regulator.  The control was
screwed all the way down and if you backed it out at all, the engine
would proceed to hesitate horribly and die.  Everyone agreed that the
control screw should not be all the way down.  We began looking for a
spare that Mark might have around the shop.  We came up with one right
when we thought none exsisted, and stuck it on.  Started the baby and it
ran like it never has before.  *Big Sigh of Relief*  The only thing that
really needs to be done now is get a set of good Bosch spark plug wires
(not the cheap one from you FLAPS like I got.)  Being dead beat from no
sleep and a long day, Keith offered his hospitality and let us stay at
his place for the night.  Needless to say, Katie had a great time with
Savannah, and Leah I enjoyed conversing with Keith and Robin.  The whole
trip was awesome and everyones support was absolutely amazing.  I can
not begine not thank Mark, Keith, and everyone else enough for what they
have done for my family.  The ride home was short.  Partly because of
going 75 mph the whole time.  Something I have not done for a long time.
My mileage went up to 15mpg from 10, and the stump-pulling torque is
back again.  Stopped twice to gas up and the oil never went down a bit.
After doing 75mph for nearly 2 hours straight, I was actually able to
touch the bottom of the dipstick without burning my finger at all.  The
engine is running so much cooler its amazing. Once again, I want to
thank Salem Imports for their help, as well as everyone on the list that
offered there opinions and advice.  It was all very helpful and much
appreciated. =20
            I had plans on taking notes and pictures the whole time I
was up there, but ended up being to dirts to get any of it done.  I was
able to take a handful of pictures of the engine, the cracked clutch
plate, and the empty engine bay and the underside of the bus.
Buuuuttttttt, I left the camera in Mark=92s shop so Keith is going to =
send
it down to me tomorrow.  Once I get it I will be sure to post the pics.
(You all know how I am with pictures)  The pic of the clutch plate
should provide some humor for the day.  All in all, the engine is
running great now and hope to see everyone at Natural Bus.  Talk to you
all later.
=20
(Yes, some of the details were left out  :-)   )
=20
=20
=20
Troy Wical
troy(-at-)wicals.com
www.wicals.com
=20
Proud owner of a '78 Bus
Not a proud owner of a VW
http://www.geocities.com/billberckman/domain.html
=20
=20
=20

------=_NextPart_000_0012_01C1F9DB.7BC95270--


