From: "Collie" <collie(-at-)ifoundit.ca>
To: "Type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Mon, 13 May 2002 12:39:31 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2]Slider sun roof

I have a 1977 Sunroof bus that works perfectly. I replaced both cables, the
cog wheeel, handle and the plastic cable guide retainers. I have owned this
bus for about 10 years and I have spent LOTS of $$ on the sunroof. Here is
why. Volkswagen put a HUGE metal sunroof thats poweref by two cables. These
two cables are are made of a very soft metal and from what I have been told,
very tough to weld. Not impossible, but hard. The rear of these cables are
physically attached to the rear of the sunroof and the cables run to the
front of the van in their respective guides. These cables are held int he by
plastic covers with little tiny screws. The left and right cables meet in
the middle of the bus and pass eachother on their respective sides of the
cog wheel whicj is attached to the crank insidee the bus above your head.
So, when you open the roof, the cables 'Push' the sunrood down about 1.5
inches and it is pushed into the rear of the bus above the headliner on
special guides. When you close the roof, it 'pulls' the roof closed and then
it lifts up and seals itself in its opening.

Why do these go bad?

The force needed to puch and pull the roof closed is tremendous and without
proper lubrication of the cables, more force is required to open and close
the roof. More force may cause the cog wheel to slip or a cable to snap
(remember the soft metal?) Many a PO would then simply grab the roof and
force it closed by hand and stick a wedge in it to hold it in its place.
Upon finding out how much the parts are to fix the roof, many just gave up
and siliconed them shut. Another reason for the silicone fix is the seal
that is used to do this job. Its made of FELT! Yes, felt, and they are VERY
expensive. I paid about $120 USD for mine about 8 years ago. Now they are
NLA.

So, with that said, I would SUGGEST to all sunroof owners toremove the
plactic guide covers and grease the cables lightly to decrease friction when
pushing or pulling that roof closed. Make sure that your cables are in
working order and clean of dirt and grime and that your roof closes
properly. IF your seal is bad, improvise, if you cant find a brand new one.

I recommend fixing them as they are amazing when working perfectly.

If you have any more sunroof questions, please p-mail me and I will be happy
to help if I can.


Collie

1979 Automatic Westfalia 'Booger'
1977 Sunroof Bus 'Manana'
2000 NB

www.collisoncorner.com - UPDATED! 02.13.2002
www.ifoundit.ca - LAUNCHING SOON!

----- Original Message -----
From: "Sherri" <sherri(-at-)screamingdaisies.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <magicbus1974(-at-)yahoo.com>
Sent: Monday, May 13, 2002 11:29 AM
Subject: [T2] Re:Slider sun roof


>
>
> Come to think of it, anyone have experience with a
> sunroof?  This one (1977) has the handle removed and
> the seam siliconed shut - presumably because it
> neither worked nor was leak free.
> Joe
>
>
>     Mine is the same way. I am anxious to see the responses. If you
>     figure anything out can you post it or let me know?



