Date: Thu, 01 Nov 2001 14:42:20 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: "T. Neal" <boxorayn(-at-)gorge.net>, typE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM
Subject: Re: [T2] Funky Jerry Can

I would run it and not worry BUT would start to rotate my stock - use it 
monthly and refill.

Most fuels have some dyes added to them to help identify it. This MAY be 
what you see.

In Italy when I was over there every grade and type of fuel had a dye added 
to it.

Every once in a while I would have to pull my VW's idle jets (easy) and 
clean them because the fuel might have larger particles in it that would 
build up and get trapped at the idle jets.

I quick cleaning and my car would idle every so sweetly again.

There were reds, blues and greens I think. The color was not bright but a 
created a slight shading of that color when viewed in your parts cleaning pan.

IF IT HAS A CARB AND NOT FUEL INJECTION:

If you want to burn this old gas I don't think it would hurt anything. Just 
pay attention to the engine. If it is pinging fill up with good high-grade 
gas to dilute the old. You might want to filter it first if you doubt how 
clean it is.

While I was stationed overseas in Italy we had gas strikes put on by the 
gas station owners to protest anything - political issues, interest rates, 
elections, soccer match scores, or sometime because we speculated they all 
wanted to go on vacation together....

Anyhow the worst of the strikes would leave you without fuel for a couple 
of WEEKS! Guess what I expected to happen after 9-11-01. I wanted to go 
stockpile the stuff. I didn't.

We had about a bunch of big plastic Jerry cans that the gas stations would 
give you (on exchange) when you bought kerosene. We would stock pile it.

Eventually though on one occasion we ran out. The day the stations reopened 
the only one I could get gas from was 6 miles away.

I crawled in my 1972 40 HP Italian-spec Super Beetle and turned on the key. 
The needle had not moved off the stop the previous day so I knew I was 
nearly empty.

Hmmm. Gotta make quarters (roll call) in a couple hours - can't be late for 
the Navy - hmmm.

So I made a flammable liquid by pouring everything I had to put in there.

Caution: DO NOT TRY THIS UNLESS YOU WANT THE RISK. ANY DAMAGES YOU CAUSE 
DUPLICATING THIS STORY ARE "YOUR" FAULT!!!

In went some lacquer thinner, mineral spirits, carb cleaner, some kerosene, 
some diesel fuel I kept for cleaning parts, and ??? I don't remember what 
else -- as long as it said flammable on the label I put it in.

In the end I had about 2 gallons of gas+junk in there. If the car had to 
start on this it wouldn't. However with what gasoline was in the carb bowl 
and the gas in the fuel line I was able to start up normally and get down 
the road a mile or so (getting the engine warm) before the junk made it to 
the carb.

When it hit I went from 38.79 happy horsepower to about 15. I was able to 
keep running but it ran TERRIBLE.

I made it to the gas station and filled up and a few miles down the road it 
cleaned itself up and ran mostly correctly. It really took the next tank to 
get itself right.

My "mixture" probably had an Octane rating of about 53.

We had plenty of carbs, fuel pumps, and engines so I didn't worry about 
hurting this one. The engine never showed any problems related to that day 
though.

I don't worry about bad fuel as long as it does not have granular type 
impurities - dirt, sand, sugar, etc. Anything that might stop up a filter 
or a carb.

If I've got a late model car or a fuel injected engine I am VERY careful 
because it is much more complicated and expensive to fix that stuff. Only 
the best for my Honda and Westy engines.

At 12:33 PM 11/1/01 -0600, you wrote:
>Hi All -
>As many of us do, I keep a Jerry can full of extra gas on board my bus -
>strapped to the roof up in the front luggage area, to be exact.  The Jerry
>can is one of those standard red plastic types, and is approximately 3 years
>old.  Yesterday I took it down because I needed some gas, and noticed that
>the outside of the can seemed deteriorated: the red color seems to now be
>fading and morphing into an orangish color in many places, and there was
>also what looked like bubbling on the surface.  Just thinking it was fading
>from age, I opened it up and pulled out the long nozzle that, when not in
>use, hangs into the gas on the inside.  Looking at the plastic
>accordion-like nozzle, it had a reddish-orange tint to it (i.e. same color
>as inside of the can?).  I wiped a portion it with my finger, and it came
>off to reveal the normal white color of the nozzle.  This leads me to
>believe that there is red coloration from the Jerry can in the gas itself,
>and it is caused this apparent discoloration.  Therefore, my question is
>this:  Is this gas still OK to pour in & use in my engine?  I don't know,
>but it just seems like this coloration substance is not something that would
>be filtered out and subsequently would not be good running through my
>engine.  What do you think???  Thanks for your help!
>
>Travis
>1979 Riviera Campwagen
>
>
>
>----------------------------------------------------------------------
>   To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to: type2-unsubscribe(-at-)pon.type2.com
>   To email the admin for list help only: type2-admin(-at-)pon.type2.com
>  For additional commands send any e-mail to: type2-help(-at-)pon.type2.com
>----------------------------------------------------------------------

Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

