Date: Fri, 02 Nov 2001 08:14:14 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Living out of a Bus....HELP!

Power - I'd invest in multiple good RV/Marine deep cycle batteries. The 
solar panel thing is good but expensive. About $100 per 10 watts of 
generated power I think I remember. They are much happier when aimed at the 
sun. In winter the sun is available for shorter periods and less intense. 
Visit www.homepower.com They have a great magazine that explains it all 
well. The mag is a free download.

A better power source can be (sometimes) a windmill on a pole mounted to 
the back of your bus. Again depends on your ocation. No where as stealth as 
a solar cell though.

Lighting - visit www.jademountain.com and take a good look at the LED 
lighting solutions. Most use almost no power. Leaves more power for other 
things like TV.

Might look at some of the great portables out there with LCD screens. Same 
goes for other portables that run on self contained batteries. They use 
less power so their batteries don't die so soon. Will also be good for your 
VW battery with an adapter. You can buy a 12V cigarette adapter that will 
plug into these portables where the same adapter you use in a house (120V 
-> 12V) without having to use an inverter.

Like someone else said, an inverter uses alot of power doing the 12DC to 
120V AC conversion. Gadgets are much more efficient these days if you buy 
carefully. My Walkman in the mid-80s would run a few hours on 4 "AA" 
batteries. Out latest Walkman cassette + radio (off brand) runs several 
times longer on 2 "AA". On a RV battery that would be days or weeks.

My 10 year old SONY Watchman TV that I bought during my enlistment with the 
Navy (easy to pack away) will run a few hours on 4 "AA". It also accepts an 
AV signal from any AV source. That one is not LCD or color. The newer ones 
almost always are. Would run several evenings on an RV battery.

Appliances - take a good look at RV catalogs. They have better (I think) 12 
V gadgets than the other suppliers like JC Whipme. I say better in that 
they can be more efficient, use less power.

Heat - a propane heater would be okay while you are awake with a CO meter 
but while I was asleep I would consider a very nice low temperature 
sleeping bag from one of the backpacking suppliers like www.campmor.com 
Remember breathing and propane create alot of moisture inside your bus. 
Moisture leads to rust. Some say their bus rust problems are from alot of 
breathing. Try to breathe less when you're in your bus...  <grin>

I do alot of hiking and it is easy to get a sleeping back that will keep 
you warm down to VERY low temps (approaching zero). The idea is to wear the 
least amount of clothes you can so your body radiates alot of heat and you 
stay warmer. A bit of reading on the subject at any library or book store 
will explain this more. I you like a former roommate of mine are really 
cold natured then invest in electric socks or underwear. That would at 
least generate a bit of warmth and the sleeping bag would efficiently 
conserve it for you. They run on flashlight batteries but could I suppose 
be hooked to the bus system. They don't pull alot of power. Run the cords 
out of the bottom of the bag through the bottom of the zipper. Hunting 
catalogs have these.

Hope this helped you a bit.
Ciao!

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion

FOR SALE:       Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing and exhaust 
- make offer
                 5 Beauty rings for 13" wheels, very nice, no dents, packed 
ready to go, $40 (was my cost)

