From: "Kirk, Jim" <jkirk(-at-)dnr.state.in.us>
To: "Post To Type2 List (E-mail)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 2 Nov 2001 17:25:10 -0500 
Subject: Bus Heat

I've had a couple of requests for instructions to make the coffee can
furnace. I won one of these as a door prize at Busses Nowhere Near The Arch
a couple of years ago. It's an ingenious little device.

Get a 1 pound steel coffee can (empty of course). Save the little plastic
re-sealable lid. Get a roll of cheap toilet paper. Use a pair of needle nose
pliers to pull the cardboard core out of the center of the roll of paper.
Crush the roll of TP down to close up the hole where the core used to be.
You may have to remove some of the paper to make it fit in the can. It
should be snug, but not overly tight.

Press the paper to the bottom of the can. Should be about 1/2 to 3/4 inch of
space above the paper to the lip of the can. Get a bottle of rubbing alcohol
from the pharmacy. The kind you rub on cuts and scrapes. If you get the
wintergreen kind it will make your bus smell good.

Slowly pour the alcohol into the coffee can. The TP will soak it up. Bubbles
will rise to the surface as the alcohol is soaking into the paper. At some
point the bubbles will stop and the furnace will be full. Pour off any
excess liquid. It should hold most of a bottle. The paper acts as a wick,
bringing the alcohol to the surface. Just hold a match over the top of the
paper to light. You will get a small blue flame. Maybe about 6 inches in
height. Alcohol burns clean... no fumes. You only have two worries. Leave an
window open a crack so you don't burn up all the oxygen and don't set the
curtains on fire. I set mine on top of the ice box well away from the
curtains. You might have to light two of them if you're camping below
freezing, otherwise one should work just fine. The flame will put off light,
heat and moisture. No fumes.

To put out the flame, all you need do is cut off the oxygen supply for a
second or so. I use a book or a magazine slapped down over the top of the
can just for an instant. I've never set anything on fire. After the can
cools a bit snap the plastic lid back on to keep the alcohol from
evaporating. Should burn several hours on one charge. I can usually get the
alcohol at the drugstore for about 50 cents a bottle sometimes on sale 2 for
50 cents. 

If you start to notice the paper starting to turn black and smoking, you're
running out of alcohol. Just put it out and add another bottle.

I do recommend you have a fire extinguisher handy and don't do this if
you've ever smelled gas fumes inside of your bus. Make sure all of your fuel
lines are quite secure (always a good idea!).

Jim Kirk

