Date: Mon, 10 Jun 2002 20:15:26 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: jeffrey small <jeffreysmall(-at-)attbi.com>
Subject: Bus value/for sale?

Howdy folks -

My 11 year relationship with our 68 Riviera hardtop camper is ending. 
The missus' wanted something safer, and I am done with auto projects. 
This bus will be for sale soon, maybe tomorrow.  I'd appreciate  any 
and all advice on it's value. Offers are welcome.  It think the bus 
would be happiest to stay in the Pacific NW.

It's a white, stock single port Riviera hardtop camper.  Overall 
pretty presentable, but definitely showing it's 34 years.  Has 
typical minor(?) rust - a bit in front floors, needs a battery tray 
and a correct repair on that corner.  I haven't looked hard at the 
rockers yet, they have surface rust at least.  There is a good bit of 
surface rust in general.  The nose has some wrinkles that aren't too 
obvious with the spare in place.  The windshield was replaced a few 
years back and it's frame repaired - no rust there.  Remainder is 
pretty straight.

The interior is in good shape - real wood in the Riviera version of a 
camper.  Has a 2 burner propane stove, ice box, water pump and tank, 
and a small freestanding catalytic heater that feeds off the under 
bus propane tank.  Z bed, closets, table, etc, are all there and 
work.  Crappy AM/FM cassette in dash with CD player in stealth glove 
box location. Has a nice side awning.

278 K on the bus, 57 K on the motor.  It runs strong and does not go 
through oil.  Good HD tires, new brakes, all new exhaust. Oil temp 
and pressure gauges. There is an issue with the motor.  It is LOUD. 
I don't know what it is.  No holes in exhaust, cracks in heads, etc. 
It does have lots of end play.  One guru thought the crank is broken. 
He said that the broken ends can index and the motor still run.  Is 
this possible?  It still runs very strong, just LOUD. ????

I've got a small pile of new bits that go with the deal, too - german 
side and rear seals, taillights, front ts lenses, more seals, 
bushings, etc - various stuff that I've squirreled away towards 
painting/resto.

This bus has seen daily use up until 3 months ago and needs a good home.

There's one pic  up at the link below; more pics on the way.

http://home.attbi.com/~3redcars/

signing off from Seattle,

jeff small
