Date: Tue, 11 Jun 2002 07:54:36 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Help: installing 2nd oil cooler for 79 bus

Save your money!!

Got cooler and such but Pep Boys carries the same cooler, fan and electric 
thermostat.

Maybe cheaper - I don't know.

You also need to find (in addition to the parts listed) an oil thermostat 
so you aren't circulating the oil through the cooler when the oil is cool.

I believe the one I bought back in '95 is a CB Performance but it was a 
very generic part and I think you could find the same thing from many 
suppliers - JEGS, SUMMIT RACING, BAS Ahnendorp, etc.

I installed a Type IV 2.0 in my Beetle and used the 911 replica kit from 
BAS. Still had to fabricate alot of the parts. The oil cooler on the TYPE 
IV engine had to be relocated so I took the oil cooler off - used an 
adapter plate and ran new oil lines to the OEM cooler which was hanging 
under the car. It would catch the wind and cool the oil.

I also ran the lines through the oil thermostat.

The oil lines went from the oil cooler adapter plate out to the OEM cooler 
and on the return trip it passed through this thermostat. When the oil got 
hot enough the thermostat would open and allow oil to circulate through the 
secondary oil cooler (above the tranny) and when it got hot enough it would 
cause the electric fan thermostat to come on and cool the oil. This usually 
happened in 90+ degree weather when I got off the interstate and was stuck 
in traffic. It was effective b/c the oil temps stayed below 220 and the fan 
would cycle.

It was effective and necessary since the kit shroud did not include any way 
to cool the oil with the fan.

Is your van running that hot? I can understand wanting some extra cooling 
capacity but if your oil is running hot, maybe start with fixing that first.

Good luck - holler if I can answer anything more for you.

Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


