Date: Tue, 11 Jun 2002 10:05:37 -0700
From: Sherri <sherri(-at-)screamingdaisies.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Buster's New Bits

Hello List,

Well Buster is actually starting to take shape. Thanks to a very nice 
fellow named Bill Harris formerly of Arizona, Buster has all new 
cabinetry including Sink, Stove and Fridge as well as a bed frame. The 
laminate is peeling off but the frame and wood is in fantastic shape. I 
have started peeling off the laminate to re-laminate it. I went to Home 
Depot yesterday and talked to them about laminates, picked some samples 
and I feel fairly confident I can do this job. We'll see if I am crying 
to the lists for help :) I'll be putting pics up on the web site soon.

Buster was towed on Saturday to an RV storage facility, where he will 
sit for a couple months while I save up for a new engine. Got a pretty 
good quote. $1500 for the engine and $495 for labor. Sounds a lot better 
than the $4,000 I was quoted before just to replace the heads. I am 
going to search through the archives to see what engines are good and 
what engines to avoid, so I can be better informed. I believe I have 
read to stay away from GEX. I found out I have a Type 4 engine. I know 
what a Longblock is and I am sorta ok on the definition of a stroker. Oh 
and I know what turnkey is too. I am learning! :)

The only problem I had was on Saturday after we dropped Buster off at 
his new home (sandwiched between a full-size Partridge family bus and a 
5th wheel) we were discussing how I was going to get the stuff in the 
bus with the sliding door not working. So we had this bright Idea. My 
girlfriend got inside the bus and I stood outside and we tried to pull 
the door open. The back part towards the rear popped out but the front 
part was stuck. So I said "hip-check it hard and maybe the front will 
pop loose" so she hit it hard with her hip and the whole door dropped 
into the dirt. I imagine we looked pretty silly, two girls standing in a 
deserted storage yard with our mouths hanging open and dumb looks on our 
faces. :) We spent another 1/2 hour struggling to put it back in place. 
It's hanging there precariously, but from outward appearances at least 
you wouldn't really know that the door isn't attached. Unless of course 
a stiff wind comes by and knocks it loose. So this weekend I will be 
spending time with my manuals, and the door, trying to figure out how 
it's supposed to work first and then why it isn't working. Wish me luck.

Sherri
http://www.screamingdaisies.com/buster

