From: "David Maurio" <david.maurio(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 11 Jun 2002 13:09:40 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] more "what is this?" questions...

Hey, thanks everyone for all the help!

I must have popped off the hose for the auxiliary air regulator when I
removed the crankcase ventilation hose while I was trying to reattach the
thermostat cable... ;)  (look at all the stuff I'm learning tho! not bad for
a newbie huh? lol)

All hoses are back together, I did in fact have that black rubber 90-degree
angle boot there, just didn't see it under all the wires...  I think the
reason all of the hoses are so loose is that they're coated with oil... I
tried to clean them as best as I could, hopefully they'll stay put until I
can get some clamps or something...

I finally have the thermostat cable hooked back up... couldn't find a cable
at any auto parts store locally, so I went to a bike shop and bought some
brake cable for $5, roughly the same size, twisted wire... (maybe like .05mm
larger in diameter... looks like it's going to work fine...  The thermostat
seems to be in good shape too... I have to check it once the engine gets hot
to verify it's opening the flaps tho...

The part number on that relay is 141951253B, I also found a loose blue/green
wire, it is coming through the firewall on the bottom right hand side (if
your facing the front of the bus) with a bunch of other wires... it has a
female spade clip on it, and a male inserted into the female, but is
unattached to anything, I'll try and get a pic up on my site soon...

I'm going to replace that oil filler cap as soon as my next trip to the auto
parts store... when the bus is running I can feel spurts of air shooting out
of it... so I probably have low oil pressure...  I think the bulbs for the
idiot lights are blown on the dash... anyone know where I can get these?

Also...  I pretty much have no heater components... no fresh air fan, no tin
under the engine (I can see the push rod tubes from below...)  can I get
this stuff aftermarket?  any suggestions?  costly? I have the BN4, but
someone already pointed out that if I don't have this stuff, I have no
defroster... etc...

Thanks again for all the help, I love this stuff... especially when it
finally gets fixed... lol

D



>
>On Mon, 10 Jun 2002, David Maurio wrote:
>
>Here's some pictures of some problems I'm having, if anyone has a
>chance to take a look and reply I'd appreciate it...  Thanks!
>http://members.bellatlantic.net/~vze3t2qs/bus/bus2.htm
>

