From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Jun 2002 12:24:51 -0500
Subject: Bunch of Bus Stuff - Gotta Go!

	Attn:  Los Angeles / SoCal List-eroos and List-erettes...

	The girlfriend's gotta be out of her place by next weekend, and
since we have mostly gotten finished "Saving Her Bay", there's a buncha
stuff left over after reviving her '73 Deluxe...

	The PO was an evil fool who knew not how to keep his VUU alive, so
we inherited a number of spare short blocks with toasted or missing cylinder
heads.  Off the top of my head (pun intended), there is one 1.7 / 1.8 short
block that appears to have had a recent rebuild (the rods have been
lightened, balanced, semi-polished or something) with a hydraulic cam.  I
took off the P&C as part of the partial inspection teardown, they will
likely require a new set of rings, and a rebuilt set of heads (IIRC one head
is present, one is missing).  It was built on an EB case (412 wagon?) so
it's got the right holes for a bus application - would make an excellent
spare or backup motor with a little TLC.

	The PO had installed a '78 2.0L with more or less complete exhaust
system + cheap-oh Monza stylie muffler thing.  We removed it in favor of the
original '73 heater boxes 'n stuff.  Must now be rid of the '78 heater
boxes, U-tubes, etc...

	Lots 'n lots 'n lots of misc. cooling tin, evil Weber progressive
carb 'n manifold + evil 009 dizzy, you get the picture don't you?

	Rear-most seat w/ semi-tattered black upholstery + a mostly complete
Z-bed doohicky adaptor.

	This is most of what I can think of right now - the list is subject
to revision as packing continues.  The schtuff is in the Pasadena area, and
I just have no place to put any of it as my storage unit is full of 914 'n
Type3 goods left over from 914 'n Type3 days.  No reasonable offers refused,
and in some cases all I want is for the stuff to go to somebody who can put
it to use so's they can "Save Their Bay"...  Know what we means, jellybeans?
No shipping or any of that tomfoolery, you gotta come look at it, touch it,
feel it, etc.

	Oh yeah, let's do all contact off-list, and we'll also throw in a
"Save The Bays" sticker on any purchases or if you just show up and ask
nicely for one...

	Jim Hayden
	www.savethebays.org    
