From: "Robert Wallace" <Wallace.Bob(-at-)btinternet.com>
To: <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>,
Date: Mon, 24 Jun 2002 22:34:33 +0100
Subject: RE: [T2] higher oil pressure lately

Hi Don,

I assume you have an electric gauge rather than a mechanical gauge (do VDO
even make a mechanical gauge?).

With an electric gauge the gauge does not measure the pressure but rather
responds to the change in resistance of the sender unit in the engine bay;
but instead of being calibrated in volts or Ohms its calibrated in psi.

These means that the gauge reading can be effected by a change in resistance
some where in the circuit eg a dirty /bad contact at the sender unit. I
would check this first, also check that a stranded wire is not breaking
where it is attached to the connector.

Its also possible for electric gauges to produce a different reading due to
a different voltage being produced by the regulator (on my '73 the oil temp
was 5 degrees C different with headlights on or off). So a changed reading
could simply be an indication of a different electrical load within the
vehicle, or it could be indication of a failing regulator in your
dynamo/alternator.

The pressure within the engine is regulated by one or two springs (depending
on exactly which engine you have) so higher than normal pressure may
indicate a stuck pressure relief spring/plunger. There are e-mails in the
list archive on checking the operation of these springs/plungers.

Of course it could be dirt causing a partial blockage of the oil gallies
too, a treatment with flushing oil (follow the instructions provided when
you buy it) may clear a partial blockage; but I would not consider flushing
oil unless all the above produce no results.

Good luck
Bob Wallace
Bristol UK
1998 T2

-----Original Message-----
From: Donald Johnson [mailto:djohnson1(-at-)snet.net]
Sent: 23 June 2002 00:48
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] higher oil pressure lately


I have had a VDO oil pressure guage in my rebuilt 1600dp motor for two
years now.. Motor has 6000 miles on it since rebuild.  Lately, oil
pressure has been climbing up to 70+ at startup, then easing back down
to 45-50 at highway speeds.  I have read in the archives that this is
"somewhat normal", but the gauge used to top off at about 55-60 before
returning to 42 at 60 mph 3500 rpm.  Temps seem about the same as
before, 190 in city, 230 tops on highway, so the change in pressure has
me raising an eyebrow.  This is the second full year, and I did not see
these changes last year when the seasons changed here in CT.  I am
planning a week long camping trip to the White Mountains of New
Hampshire in a few weeks, and am just trying to get the bus running
smooth as possible.  Am I being overly sensitive, or where should look
to try to find the culprit?  Any advice appreciated

thanks

Don
71 Westy
65 EZ


