Date: Mon, 28 Aug 2006 14:10:42 -0400 (EDT)
From: Adam Narraway <adoom(-at-)rogers.com>
To: the_bug_pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Busquinox 06 Info Update

Hi folks, 
I have made the reservation, for which I had some
reservations, for Busquinox 06. 

Details, Details, Details:
Location:
Valens Conservation Area, Cambridge. ON. 
1691 Regional Road #97 - Fox Run Campsite
http://www.conservationhamilton.ca/Asset/iu_files/map_valens.gif

Date: SEPTEMBER 23rd
We have "FOX RUN" from 2pm Saturday, until 1 pm
Sunday. (this is different from last year) 
When you arrive, please mention "The Bug Pack". When
they look at you like you're crazy tell them the
reservation is under "Narraway". If they still look
confused, tell them "Fox Run" and that should clear
things up. 

Cost:
$24 + tax at the gate. Also, I have an overhead of $53
which I will be splitting among all vehicles. The more
people, the lower the cost. Count on $5 each, but I
hope for lower. 

Activities:
We'll be having a lawn chair sitting skillz
competition 

Saturday night we will be having a fire. Feel free to
bring a donation of wood! Also, the Equinox has
special meaning to pagan folk... so..errr... feel free
to dance naked n stuff. 

The annual "what time will the organizer show up?"
pool will also be available for those looking for some
gambling fun. 

Sunday we will be doing pancake breakfast. Please
pmail me at adoom (-at-) rogers.com (remove spaces) if you
are wondering what to bring!

Valens has lots of cool stuff to explore, I encourage
everyone to bring a towel and hit the beautiful beach,
or bring a bike, or shoes, and hit some trails. 
More info is available at
http://www.conservationhamilton.ca/parks/visit/valens.asp

This is meant to be a relaxing camp. There are no
awards or door prizes, but please save them and donate
them to the next event! 

Who likes Rules?:
Valens is a "dry" campsite. We have never been given
any trouble by following the Red-Cup rule. Please lets
continue this tradition, and keep your "recreational
beverages" concealed, and your behaviour family
friendly. If you are unsure on how to hide a beverage,
we will be holding a workshop on Saturday called "Red
Cups and Thier Impact on Modern Camping Societies".

If you choose to bring a pet, please keep that pet on
a short (under 3m) leash, and clean up after it.
Monkeys included. 

Leave your "world's loudest soundsystem" at home. I
like bass as much as the next guy, but the neighbours
might not like your music "mash-up" of Manilow vs. DJ
Shadow as much as you. 

For more useless rules, details, and yammering, pmail
me at adoom (-at-) rogers.com (remove the spaces)

Thanks, 
Adoom
