Date: Mon, 28 Aug 2006 15:16:56 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Sharing some recent experiences (like a VW road trip, of sorts)

The RBC (required Bus Content):  I was replacing my shocks, and I found that
i could not get the left rear top shcok bolt in (Mike B, are you
listening!!)  I thought the 'captured nut' slipped, and all it would take
would be a bit of finageling.  Nope...  So I tookit to my auto mechanic.  He
and his welper worked on this for over 30 minutes (I have a stop watch on my
wrist watch. It doubles as my speedometer.) and cold not get the bolt in.
He said hte bracket was bent and I should take it to a body shop.

The body shop manager had his best (old timers) people look at it, and it
was determined that it woul take FOUR HOURS on a frame straightening jig to
unbend the top mount!!  This equates to $160 of labor.  A costly error on my
part, but I cannot figure out HOW I bent that top mount so badly when I took
the bolt off the shock.  Maybe I just underestimated my strength...

On my 240SX, the auto tranny is blown.  Again.  Someone in Danbury Ct
offered to GIVE me the tauto trans that he took out of his 240SX when he put
a five speed in.  See, it's not just the VW community that is a giving
group!!  Good karma to Danbury CT.  I had my 20 year old daughter go pick up
the trans from this 20 year old boy, but not before I emailed the boy that
my daughter is an excellent rifle-woman fro West Point!!!  Trust, but
verify!!  No, trust, but make sure they know they will have their privates
made public if there is any hanky-panky.

On my Honda Accord, my boy was quoted some $350 for parts and labor to
replace a driver side window.  I talked with Mark Dolesh from Brandywine
Used Auto Parts, and he quoted me $30 for the window and bracket (the
bracket, which is one piece with the window, is the broken part) and $50 for
labor to install. $80.  Awesome.   It seems Brandywine (route 5 and route
301) has a glass service!!  Any good news is appreciated....

On the '76 VW Safare:  I have to use that to go to and from work until
things settle down.  Now, I just replaced the muffler and I had spray
painted the muffler with some VHT paint (Very High Temperature).  I am told
that the smell I am catching as the engine gets to operating temp is the
paint 'curing', either the base paint on the muffler, or the VHT paint.

I  still have two sets of tires on rims...
-- 
Anymouse sends
