To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Diane Reese <dreese(-at-)us.ibm.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Aug 2006 17:13:35 -0700
Subject: Help for traveling novice son now in Sacto area?

Hello all, my novice post to the list, posting in an emergency situation
for my inexperienced son.

My son (age 19) bought a 78 Transporter about a month ago.  He has never
owned nor worked on cars before, but his dad has (including VW bugs back in
the day). Two local guys we found on the AIRS list came over to give him a
once-over: the van was in very good shape but was leaking oil and had a few
other things to fix, so they encouraged him to pull the engine before his
trip from CA to MA... which was supposed to be this week.  Long story
short, he got it out, fixed it up, got it back in, adjusted everything he
could, and it started up and ran yesterday! He and his girlfriend took off
yesterday afternoon with a plan to get to Massachusetts in 8 days, but not
before he connected the battery leads backwards and likely messed up the
alternator.  They bought a spare battery and intended to stop in Reno today
to see about getting that fixed.  They camped somewhere between Sacramento
and Reno last night.

Today has been a blur:
-- the van wouldn't start in the morning
-- someone (AAA?) came and took him to a shop and got it started; the Reno
VW folks couldn't look at it until Tues. which would make their arrival for
school too late, so they decided to drive it back home
-- just outside Sacto on I-80, the engine died
-- he tried calling 4 names on the AIRS list in the Sacto area, but 2 are
disconnected and 2 didn't answer
-- he had it towed to a PEP Boys with a repair bay, but doesn't know if
they will know what to do with it

The goal is to get it running enough that he can get it back to near San
Jose in the next day or so. He has lots of parts and tools with him
(including a 2-ton jack and ramps, and 3 manuals), but is short on
experience (like, he has none other than the previous week's-worth).

Since the AIRS "map" list on the website seems to be out of date, and my
son has no electricity or wireless for his own Internet connection, I'm
taking a chance and writing to this list. Does anyone know of any resources
in the Sacramento area that I could put him in contact with?  Thanks so
very much!

concerned mom,
Diane Reese
