From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "List - Type 2"
Cc: "O'Shea, Kathie \(& Craig\)" <koshea56(-at-)aol.com>
Date: Mon, 28 Aug 2006 21:46:36 -0500
Subject: Buses Nowhere Near The Arch #21...

Hi all,

Just as an update, the 21st BNNTA VW camping event is less than a week away,
and we're in our final preparations for the arrival of lots of buses and
other VWs from all across the U.S.A.

The latest weather forecast is for not only good, but for GREAT weather for
the long holiday weekend!!!  They're forecasting clear skies and daytime
highs in the mid 80's and nightime lows in the mid 60's (so you ought to
pack a light jacket). Perfect camping weather!  Our first arrivals will be
at the lakeside campground on Thursday.

We've leased the entire group campground again so that we can have it all to
ourselves.  Only VWs (of any model or year) will be admitted to the
campgrounds.  This beautiful secluded wooded campground is on a pennisula on
22 mile long Mark Twain Lake in northeastern Missouri, about 30 miles from
hstoric Hannibal, Mo.  Sites can not be reserved in advance, and are
first-come, first served.  There are quite a few sites with electrical
hook-ups, and everyone is good about sharing the outlets.  There will be an
informal Bus show with participant voting for awards, campfire activities,
music, a scenic countryside caravan over to Hannibal on Saturday, and lots
of site-to-site socializing throughout the entire holiday weekend.  There is
usually a little swap meeting going on too.  Food and supplies are available
in nearby Monroe City.  The total event/camping fee for the entire weekend
at BNNTA is $30 per VW, which this year will include a dash plaque.  If you
like stepping out of your bus each morning and seeing nothing but classic
VWs and their enthusiast owners, this events for you!

It sounds like the competition for the highly sought after "Best group/club
campground theme (decorations)" is going to be fierce this time, so get your
act together, or come to see what these groups devise for their themes!

The event t-shirts are ready, trophys standing by to be won, the dash
plaques are ready and look awesome the first 100 VWs get one when
registering, and the door prizes are coming in.  If fact, if you have
anything VW that you'd like to donate to the door prize pile, just bring it
along.  So what are you waiting for, pack up you bus or VW and drive safely
over to the upcoming BNNTA event this weekend, Sept 1st thru 4th, 2006 at
the group campground in the Indian Creek Recreational Area on Mark Twain
Lake.  Go to http://www.bnnta.com for more info!

Please drive carefully and come join us for some family VW fun!

Bill Bowman

p.s. Oh!  By the way, the BNNTA event will be covered for a future article
in Hot VWs Magazine...
