Date: Tue, 29 Aug 2006 11:27:57 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: okartguy <okartguy(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Clutch cable just broke... Need help

Hey JJ,
It's not that hard of a job, just kinda messy.  First, order yourself a 
bentley because it's just something you'll want.  Then, you'll pull off 
the two 13mm screws that hold your clutch pedal on to the frame 
(underneath the bus).  There is a clip that holds the cable to the 
pedal.  Hopefully that isn't worn out, otherwise you'll need a new one. 
  If you can get one new, get it now while you're changing the cable.

As far as cable removal, just pull it out, noting where the cable went 
so you know how to feed the new one back through.  At the rear of the 
bus, you'll have to climb under and remove the other end of the cable 
from the tranny.  For this, you might need to free up the wing nut with 
some wd40 and then unscrew it while holding the cable with pliers 
(depends how cruddy it is under there).  While you're at it, remove the 
bowden tube (tube that goes from clutch tube to tranny) because the 
cable won't go through it while it's bent.

When you're all set with the new cable, you can apply some grease to it 
and feed it in from the front.  Eventually you'll see it come out the 
back.  You can probably attach it now to the clutch pedal with the clip 
and screw the pedal back to the frame.  Now go back under the bus (with 
grease gun in hand), push the cable through the bowden tube seating the 
bowden tube on the end of the clutch cable tube, feed the end of the 
cable through the tranny bowden tube mount, and bend the bowden tube 
back into place being careful not to tweak the cable, and then feed the 
cable through the throwout arm lever thing (or whatever it's called). 
Screw on the wing nut until the cable is relatively tight - I pull on 
the cable a few times to raise the pedal up off the floor and then 
tighten some more.  This is where a helper comes in handy to press the 
clutch pedal every now and then and let you know how much more you need 
to tighten the wingnut.

While you're still under the car, grab your grease gun and inject some 
grease into the grease fitting on your bowden tube.  This will help keep 
the cable from wearing inside the tube.

That's pretty much about it.  Make sure you have about 1" of play on the 
clutch pedal and adjust the wing-nut accordingly.

btw, if you get stuck at an intersection, turn off the engine, put the 
car in first, and then start the car.  It will lurch forward but at 
least you'll be able to drive out of there.  Then, accelerate to about 
4k rpms and shift to 2nd gear, and repeat for other gears.  Takes some 
practice, but you can easily get by without a clutch in a pinch - I had 
to drive about 50 miles like this, on a freeway, and through a toll 
plaza!!!  To downshift, shift into neutral, rev the engine, and push the 
shifter to the gear below the one you were just in.  If you hold it 
there, it will usually fall into gear as the engine drops rpms - or it 
will grind - depends on your bus' mood.

enjoy!
Mike

okartguy wrote:
> I was coming home from lunch just now, and my clutch went to the floor
> as I was downshifting for a stoplight. I was in a turn lane (of
> course) in heavy traffic (of course), but I managed to hop out and
> push the bus downhill into a shopping center parking lot. I crawled
> underneath, and found a few threads of wire still connecting the cable
> to the clutch lever arm on the trans, but not much else. So therein
> lies the problem. Called and got a ride and left her there for now.
