Date: Wed, 24 Nov 2010 00:25:50 -0800
From: Andy McKinley <airhedz(-at-)gmail.com>
To: kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Cc: Type II List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Intake Manifold

Hey, Kevin:

Keep at it. You'll get it.

Most of the rest of this email deals with troubleshooting a vacuum leak in
the brake booster system. There are a few general troubleshooting and other
tips that may interest you as you're kind of new to this.

I'm sure by "brake booster" John means to say that the brake booster vacuum
hose (as I recall outside diameter of about 5/8" and probably cloth
covered), is attached to the plenum. If this hose comes off, you'll have a
pretty big vacuum leak. If the brake booster is bad, it'll be pretty much
the same.

If you find that the hose is connected, disconnect it and cover the hole in
the plenum with some kind of cap or tape (don't stuff a rag or plug or
anything into it; it might get sucked in) and run the engine to see if it's
better.

If the idling improves when capping off the nipple for the booster hose,
you've either got a leak in the line to the booster or a bad booster.

Reconnect the hose to the plenum, head to the brake booster (it's somewhere
in the area under the driver's seat, seems like it's attached to the front
beam, airc, but you should see two steel hydraulic brake lines attached to
the master cylinder, which is bolted to the booster, and the hip bone's
connected to the thigh bone, and the thigh bone's connected to the knee
bone... but I digress.

Anyway, pull the vacuum line and cap it (the hose) off. Run engine.
Improvement means bad booster (there are two lines; one is attached to a
pipe that runs the length of the bus, and one that disappears into a
structural part of the body. Same kind as the one attached to the plenum).

No improvement means one of the two hoses (at the plenum to the pipe under
the van, and the pipe to the booster) or the pipe itself leaks, or some
combo thereof. If it's not an overly rusty van driven in states that salt
roads in winter, suspect the hoses.

If your brake fluid is low (reservoir is either behind the driver's seat, or
under it in the front section of the seat pedestal; in left hand drive
vehicles it's behind the heel of your right foot behind the "carpet") and
the reservoir is low, you may also have a bad master cylinder. They aren't
terribly expensive, so add that to your list if you have to replace the
booster. Throw in a couple quarts of brake fluid, and you may as well
replace the brake switches, too. They are also cheap, and over time they
fill up with detritus, requiring increasingly more pedal pressure to
activate the brake lights. You should also pull the drums off the back
brakes to check the wheel cylinders for leakage, and if you find any brake
fluid under the rubber boots, add cylinders to the list. May as well check
the brake linings and drums, as you'll have to take that apart to change the
cylinders.

My point is, if you have to crack open a system, such as the brake fluid
system, it makes sense to consider everything that's a part of that
dis-assembly and reassembly process (in the case of the brakes, consider any
part replacement that would involve bleeding the brake lines of air).

I totally agree with John. Some (most) times it is quicker and better if you
just do it right. Get all the parts you need for your next anticipated
project (you'll get better at predicting what these projects may be as your
relationship with your bus grows) as far in advance as you can so you'll
have them on hand.

John also mentioned that the left and right plenums differ. I keep a sharpie
marker and some blue masking tape on hand for labeling parts. I go so far as
to write directly on parts, like writing the cylinder numbers on the
distributor cap (someday you'll be glad you did).

But, if it is definitely the plenum hoses and you need to get home from the
side of the freeway 37 miles outside China Lake on a Sunday, grab the
superman version of duct tape (Gorilla Tape) that you keep in your
tool/spares bag. That stuff is great. I think that with a pair of pantyhose
and a roll of this stuff you could build a fan belt.

Oh, and you know that other hose that comes off the booster and disappears
into the body of the van and doesn't seem to connect to anything? That's
exactly what it does. It is just a vent for the passive side of the booster.
Keeps out water.

Andy McKinley
airhedz(-at-)gmail.com

Love your country, but never trust its government.
-- Robert A. Heinlein.
