Date: Wed, 24 Nov 2010 08:28:36 -0600
From: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: Gregory Rogers <gregorogers(-at-)gmail.com>,  Type II List
Subject: Re: [T2] AC

Gregory Rogers wrote:
> I bought a 74 Westy (my first) recently and live and travel in the
> southwestern part of the US, where summers can be pretty unpleasant. Anyone
> have any experience with air conditioning in a Type II ? 
A few years ago I found myself in the same situation as you.  When I was 
living in San Diego I did not really need A/C but after moving to Texas 
it became a necessity for the summertime (showing up for work all sweaty 
will not win you many friends).  My '73 camper already had a 
non-functional A/C unit in it (overhead DPD) so all I had to do was fix 
it.  I used the existing evaporator and condenser units, bought a used 
rotary compressor ($50), had new hoses made by a hose shop ($200), 
fitted a new evaporator/dryer in the drivers wheelwell and charged with 
134a.  I then took my bus to a chassis dyno and recorded 60hp with the 
A/C off and 58.5hp with the A/C on.  That is less than 3% of the output 
of my engine and if I have to drive 1mph slower on the highway to make 
up for it, big deal.  I imagine most people could gain 1.5hp just by 
giving their engine a good tune-up.  The older, York compressors are not 
as efficient but they do not take 10hp either - if they did, they would 
kill the engine when you turn the A/C on at idle.  I have seen published 
reports of a 5hp draw for those compressors, which is admittedly still 
significant.  Try to fit the Sanden/Sankyo rotary comressor if you can.

The concerns expressed about the size of the bus, draftiness, etc. are 
valid.  My A/C will not effectively cool behind the front seats even 
though there are two vents pointing backwards.  Someday I hope to 
improve that with insulation, better window tint and better airflow 
through the condenser but for now just having cool, dry air blowing down 
on the driver and passenger's heads was well worth the trouble.

Personally I wouldn't bother with a swamp cooler.  Trading warmer, dryer 
air for slightly cooler, humid air is not worth much IMO.

There is no good reason you can't have A/C in your '74 Westy if you want 
it badly enough and are willing to get your hands dirty.  If I were you, 
I would run (not walk) to Scott Busby's house and take him up on his 
generous offer of a free DPD overhead evaporator unit as that is the 
most critical part of the system (you can piece together the rest from 
generic parts).  In the meantime, carry with you a fine-misting spray 
bottle, keep the windows down and give yourself a shot of mist in each 
ear every 3-5 minutes.  Works surprisingly well.

-David
