Date: Fri, 26 Nov 2010 09:58:08 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] AC

Adrian Livesley my fellow Commonwealth resident advised:


>  Before you go A/C, I would suggest looking into 12v exhaust fan 
>systems, running off a second battery with a solar recharger.

	Ventilation before refrigeration, say I too.

	And at least as important is the previously-advised curbing 
of solar gain.  The powerful effects of solar gain can be glimpsed by 
contrasting an unmodified bus with a modern car having steeply raked 
windscreen & rear screen.  Full sun sends approx 1 kW per sq m in 
onto those dark surfaces esp the carefully non-reflective surface 
just inside the windscreen.  The resultant heating forces you to turn 
on the AC in the car when the more nearly vertical windscreen on the 
bus refrains from admitting such powerful heating, and the bus 
remains much more comfortable even without AC.  Roughly half of what 
comes thru the glass is IR, & half visible of which quite a lot is 
reflected (that's why you can see inside the bus from outside thru 
the windows).  IR, i.e radiant heat, is more than half of the solar 
energy that is absorbed within a bus.  Therefore, intercepting IR & 
vis before they can get inside is an elegant way to decrease the 
heating inside and prevent some if not all the need for AC.

	My advice is to slap absorbent film on such windows as don't 
need max transparency for scenery-viewing.  Stop the energy getting 
in, rather than letting it heat the inside of the bus and then 
demanding hi-capital, several-hp AC.  (BTW in the early 1970s before 
the Arab Oil Shock some Detroit cars had 28-hp AC !)
	Some jurisdictions impose legal restrictions on how absorbent 
the window films can be, on account gangsters have allegedly tended 
to favour vehicles whose occupants can't be indentified visually from 
the outside.  So do check for any such restrictions before you buy 
the film.


	I leave to Geo 'Teach' Lyle to counterattack on behalf of 
swamp coolers.


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
