To: pilot(-at-)type2.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 29 Nov 2010 13:26:44 -0800
From: baillybusbarn(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] AFM insanity

OK, I'm going to chime in here too.

In case some of the responders didn't read the first few posts... he 
plugged the OE AFM back in and the car runs.  

That pretty much eliminates ALL of the theories about other parts being
the source of
the NO START problem.  It is the "rebuilt" AFM.........  that is what is
causing  the no start
problem.  

As for the MPG issue, in my experience an auto bus is unlikely to get
even 15mpg on a good
day in NEW condition.  Especially a camper conversion.  That was ALWAYS a
complaint even
30 years ago, but back then if you could get over 10 mpg out of a
pickup/camper or towed trailer,
you were doing good.

The fuel mileage you are getting is low, but not unheared of.  Depends a
lot on terrain and driving style.
Hard to get away from WOT on an auto bus very often.

At this point I would go back over all of the various sensors and check
for normal ranges, especially the 
cylinder head temp sensor.  Then I would access a SPARE AFM somewhere
(used is preferable) try it to make 
sure that you can make the bus run, then start playing with it.

Take the cover off,  and look inside at the "clockspring" that operates
the potentiometer arm.  The spring is adjustable.
If you look closely at the mechanism you will find a small + and -
indicator where the large guage spring is 
secured and locks into the "adjusting" ring (looks like a large gear. 
using a flat blade screwdriver you can 
reposition the gear into the next teeth to either richen (loosen tension)
or lean (increase tension) on the arm.  This 
will effectively change the amount of flap movement it takes to move the
arm accross the stepped meter.  I recommend you 
go one "click" in either direction at a time, then DRIVE the vehicle to
see the overall effect.  It should be noticeble right 
away, as the vehicle will loose or gain acceleration even at on click of
change.  You will not be able to notice anything without a load.

Now before anyone disputes this.... I and a lot of other air cooled guys
I know have been doing this for years
to get Vanagons to pass emissions, Buses to go up hills and to get better
fuel economy on all of them.  Even 
before we had emissions tests and all of the fancy test equipment.  It is
not "fool proof" by any means, but it can make 
substantial change if the AFM otherwise works good and ALL other factors
are eliminated.  This procedure will
NOT make up for other faults, in fact it may make them worse.

Just trying to help a fellow Bus guy make the best use of his time,
instead of chasing all over the map to resolve
a problem witha piece of equipment that has been questionable forever
(the ubiquitous "rebuilt AFM).  

Larry 
