Date: Tue, 30 Nov 2010 09:17:07 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] AFM insanity

On 11/30/2010 6:16 AM, accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:
> yeah want to run one more test, then back in box and back to supplier

I just pulled out the Bentley and was checking on a few things.  Did you 
run all of the double relay test procedures on 10-8?

Next I would unplug the cold-start valve and leave it unplugged for the 
time-being.  I think you already did this, but you should also unscrew 
it from the manifold, run the pump, and verify that it's not leaking

You tested the fuel pressure, correct?  If not, run the fuel pump with 
the hose disconnected and it should be around 35psi.  If you can get the 
engine running, it should be 28 with the hose connected.  Otherwise 
throw a vacuum pump on there and see if it drops down when vacuum is 
applied.

Temp sensor II (head temp sensor) should be 2500 ohms with the engine 
cold - this is critical that the entire electrical path is working 
correctly.  A higher resistance will result in the ECU thinking the 
engine is colder than it really is, subsequently injecting more fuel. 
Make sure you test this resistance between the engine case and the ECU 
harness plug.  Also do the same test between the sensor plug and the 
engine case and the resistance should be very close.

Check that your three grounds are good by testing the resistance between 
the case and the ECU harness plug connections - resistance should be 
only be a few ohms at max.  This is also critical for sensor readings.

Run all of the AFM tests on page 10-16 for both of your AFMs - verify 
that everything is within spec.

And you have verified that you have ECU 022 906 021 AH, correct?

Try all of those tests.  If all of that checks out, then my guess might 
be fuel injectors shooting too much (unlikely) or still something else. 
  Are all of you plugs excessively black, or just a few?  If all of 
them, then I think it's more of a fuel metering issue (AFM, temp 
sensors, etc).  If just some, then it's possibly an injector issue.  You 
might have to eventually pull the injectors and test them one at a time 
to make sure they're not getting stuck open - but let's verify the above 
tests and go from there.

There really isn't that much stuff that can cause excessive fuel - I 
would know because I've hacked into everything in regards to fuel and 
ignition in the engine compartment and have redone of all of my fuel 
tuning.  The three things that really have an effect are the airflow 
into the engine (mass air flow in the case of the L-Jet), head temp, and 
air temp (which is in the AFM).  Beyond that, the fuel flow is then 
determined by the "programming" in the ECU...

Mike
