From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 8 Feb 2003 11:08:52 EST
To: ddixon(-at-)mbay.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] drag link replacement/big nuts loosening

often hitting with a BFH in the right place will pop the joint apart.   hit 
at exactly the right angle on the circle teh swivley end goes through.   You 
need hammering and the right angle (It's a funny angle) Cussing helps.

I prefer not to use pickle folks, but they can come in handy.  you may have 
to jack the bus up to get space.   if you have ramps, you can drive it onto 
ramp.   bash the pickle folk in, and slide your long cheater pipe over it.   
I call that pipe the Persuader.
Ve have vays of making you let go.  heh heh.  the width that you can slide in 
the bus acrossways and still shut the cargo doors is ideal.

I did give up on this once, and called a local shop that does tie rods etc..  
when they heard it was a VW they called their guy who likes VWs, who turned 
out to be someone I know, who came over after work (trade for parts for his 
deluxe) and even though he's burly that drag link gave him a workout.   So at 
least I didn't feel like a wimp for  wimping out. 

I haven't used heat on the ends there as there is rubber and I hate the smell 
of burning rubber.

On breaking axle nuts loose, the crucial thing is to keep th wheel from 
spinning.  So if your parking brake is not so hot, adjust the brakes so the 
wheel is tight.   On the other hand, you can get someone to stand on the 
brakes while you loosen the nut.    

I've had more problems getting the drum off than the nut.   If the PO had 
done me a favor and greased the shaft the drum slides right off.   Some times 
you have to loosen the brakes especially when there is a lip worn in the 
drum.   Sometimes you have to do pounding to break things loose.

I once used a puller that pulled th threads right out of th lug nut holes, it 
was that rusted.  :(

I would not tighten the axle nut up with a air wrench.  It's supposed to be 
~220 foot lbs, so if you weigh 110, stand two feet out on the bar, or if you 
weight 220 stand 1 foot out, that's it.  now just tighten till you canput the 
cotter key in, that fraction of a turn.

Once I did do the drive around with the nut not snugged down but with cotter 
key in, in order to free the rusted drum.  It worked, but I had forgotten I 
did it when it broke loose so I was a bit startled.   But that probably isn't 
safe and don't do it.


In a message dated 2/7/2003 7:39:04 PM Pacific Standard Time, ddixon(-at-)mbay.net 
writes:

<< Now, I'm trying to replace the drag link. I took the nuts off both ends. 
 I found that both cotter pins were missing. The nuts were still tight 
 and came off without any trouble. Then came the lost battle. A friend 
 lent me his pickle fork and sledge hammer to use to drive the tie rod 
 ends out. After hard hammering for about a half hour, I felt like I 
 needed to ask the gurus for a consultation. If hammering is what needs 
 to happen, then hammering will happen again. Does it need to be heated? 
 I  >>
