From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 8 Feb 2003 11:39:03 EST
To: cjay(-at-)well.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Clutch/trans problem

Ta, that's what I meant-  you want that free play at the pedal you mash with 
your foot.   If you dont have free play the clutch would be (partly) on all 
the time which would wear things out.   You don't want the play at the arm on 
the tranny, which is what I thought you were saying.  The deal is actually, 
the play before the arm moves, or the play before the clutch moves?   it 
should be before the clutch moves, and the arm should move right away.

The thing is, I think the guy who was adjusting the clutch felt that play 
before the tranny arm moved, and thought THAT was engaging the clutch, cause 
he was new to VWs.  Do VW clutche need more push that other cars?  It's been 
a while.  
    anyway, as soon as you push the pedal down, the cable should pull that 
arm and move it.  and you do feel a *small* amount of pushing back (from that 
spring on the tranny, which snaps the pedal back up).  After about 1/2 inch 
or  an inch, the push needed gets bigger, as the TO arm has pushed th TO 
bearing against the clutch, and you are now pushing the clutch in, which 
takes more push.
    If you have a spare clutch, put it on the ground and stand on it.  That 
probably won't push the clutch in (unless you're a big guy).   Now bounce up 
and down; you should now push the clutch in.  (This could be a game at a VW 
meet.  Maybe something like there's a line of clutches and you need to jump 
from one to ... never mind)  You do use leverage on the clutch so that makes 
it easier in the bus.  What I'm trying to say is you want the play before the 
actual mushing of the clutch.  

In a message dated 2/7/2003 8:21:33 AM Pacific Standard Time, cjay(-at-)well.com 
writes:

<< 
 On Tue, 4 Feb 2003 Claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:
 
 > No, you do not want that much free play before moving the arm, you want 
that
 > much free play before the TO bearing hits the clutch.
 
 I hate to differ, especially with an longtime listee :-), but the manual
 definitely means 1/2" of *free play* at the pedal, before the T.O.
 bearing lever is engaged. I broke cables almost every year until I
 changed my adjustment. There is plenty of clutch throw in my bus, along
 with about a full inch of free play (I get lazy).
 
 I assume we've just misuderstood the terms! The free play is at the pedal,
 not at the lever on the tranny - *that* wouldn't work at all! ;-)
 
 cal
