To: swharris(-at-)adelphia.net
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 5 Jul 2003 19:18:50 -0700
From: wilden1(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Bus Rims

You're a bit touchy there Stan!  Did you read the last sentence??  
-------------------- Clip ----------------------------------------
Actually I either have or can get lots of Type 1, Type 2 and Vanagon
parts at very reasonable prices.
Problem is that the round trip is often 200 miles and a half day or more
in just getting there and back, then there is sweat equity pulling the
parts.
Somebody today / yesterday posted wanting a water tank for a Bus. I know
where there are three of these but if I put in the drive time and sweat
equity it makes the tank have a 100$ value.
One fellow wanted a five rib tranny ............... I know of two. The
busses are flat on the ground and would be dangerous to work on in their
present soft soil locations.
When I see that the yard owners can get to and lift the busses I'll get
both of them (Buyer beware though, might not be good boxes). That means
I'll have to have extra bucks for the good one if I get one dud.
I consider that the local powder coater wanted $55.00 per wheel to sand
blast, prepare and coat my Porsche wheels, it just seems reasonable that
the owner of three wheels might want to get this thing done.
I've bid and bought lots of Bus / Vanagon stuff from E bay and I've sold
some things there.
I've bought lots of NLA parts and I still have some for Vanagon that I'd
like to part with but, well they didn't come to me for free and nobody on
any VW list has ever given me a lower price because I'm a list member.
In some parts of the country there are lots of VW swap meets but here in
Texas there are only about four in a full year within 150 miles of
Dallas. Only thing that means is that I seldom attend them because if its
not a Bug or Beatles part you're just wasting your time. There must be
about 30 Split Window busses in Texas because I've only seen two in ten
years, not counting the one I had.

Stan Wilder
