From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: harmony(-at-)buszen.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 12:08:13 -0700 
Subject: RE: [VB] Re: [T2] Re: [VB] RE: Parts ordering experience w/ 4 

  There are actually a lot of early parts available from the dealer if you
have someone there who wants to spend the time, i.e.; the door escutcheons
for the panels, hub cap clips and rivets and a few other little do dads. A
LOT of late model bus parts are still available also. There is no secret to
parts, vendors just spend the time looking for them. 
  I get parts from all over the world for our VW's. I have found that very
few German parts (especially any seal that still has a VW part number)that
are really made in Germany and I mean VERY FEW. I deal with an importer here
in the U S that drop ships container loads of OE (Mexico and Brazil) VW
parts to warehouses in Europe, it's funny that I get the same part directly
from him for half the cost of getting it from Germany, exact same part,
different package. 
  Everyone should be aware of this and just because a part is in a German
box or package Doesn't mean it was made in Germany, just repackaged there.
  There are NO aTe brake parts available today from Germany for our early
buses, most are made in England and other Far East countries, the same goes
for wheel bearings, but we all know that. Klobenschimdt bearings, German,
NOT, but are made to German spec. I can always tell when I am getting
Genuine Klob (German) from one of my importers by the price I have to pay,
sometimes they are cheaper then Mahle, that lets me know that they aren't
German (in most cases)
   It is up to the vendor selling the parts to be aware and honest as to the
Country of Origin of the parts they are selling, how they fit, work and
last.
   Anyone can sell parts, the importers aren't top secret (just takes
spending a lot to get the long deals) and finding out who is making what. I
am amazzed at how many companies in the U S manufacture the parts we are
buying from overseas (at inflated prices) when with a little research can be
bought here.
   Buy from whoever you like and trust, just keep those buses on the road


ronnie  old volks of az
www.type2parts.com  (working on a new up to date web site/catalog)



-----Original Message-----
From: John Baker [mailto:harmony(-at-)buszen.com]
Sent: Tuesday, July 08, 2003 10:39 AM
To: Westfalia; Terry K; Vintage Bus Post
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: [T2] Re: [VB] RE: Parts ordering experience w/ 4
vendors


Terry K wrote:
>> Are you saying from a VW "dealer"??  The parts guys
at dealerships around here balk if I go in and ask for
parts for a 1995 VW (almost too old they say) let
alone a 1965!<<

Same here. About a year ago I went into a local VW
Dealer, Century VW in Loveland, Ohio to be specific,
with a problem with my wife's old Cabriolet. while
waiting at the parts counter, I notice this really
cool big vintage poster ad showing a sailboat packed
into a split window bus. So I say to the guy, "So can
you guys get me air-cooled parts for my 66 as well?" 
The guy looked at me and laughed. No lie, he actually
laughed! After a pause and him finally realizing that
I was asking a REAL question which required a REAL
answer, her simply said, "No."

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the
implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's
station..."

-
