From: "Milo" <ovalwindow(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Vintage VW List Posting" <VintagVW(-at-)listproc.sjsu.edu>
Cc: "Vintage Bus List Posting" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 11 Oct 2001 23:18:20 -0500
Subject: RE: Okrasa, Judson, and other 36hp parts for sale

Vintage Volks,

I've gotten several replies to my earlier email, so I thought I'd reply
to the list w/ some more specific info.

The guy has a lot of stuff, but most of it is 6 volt - there won't be much
later stuff.  His tastes turned to 356's in the 60's, so he didn't do much
w/ the larger (stock) VW engines.  (When he says "split window" he's not
referring to a bus or a bug - but to a "pre-A"...  :-)

He's got a ton of stuff - and even he really has no idea of what all is
there.  He's slowly inventorying it though.  It'll probably be Nov. before
he's done.

This means it'll probably be the middle of November before I make him an
offer, or should I see we make him an offer, so keep that in mind for
funds availability.

I've gotten enough email in the last 15 minutes to signal I won't be able
to reply to everyone individually - but I will put a list w/ all of your
email addy's on it and send out an update in a week or so.  Probably just
a summary of who wants what.

As for what stuff is going to cost - I'm guessing about 50% of what you'd
pay for it at a swapmeet or on Ebay, on average.  Maybe more, maybe less.
Both he and I know either of us could each do better by selling the stuff
individually, on Ebay or at a swap meet, but he's not that computer literate
for ebay, and he doesn't want to go on "swap meet tour" next summer.  I
don't
have the time or the money for either of those endeavors myself.  The bottom
line is simple.  He wants to get rid of it all, and I just want a few
pieces.
I'll be getting the same discount as you will.  I know there are still some
altruistic folks out there - and you won't have a problem w/ this.  Some
folks may, and I'd suggest not emailing about this stuff.  I ain't got the
time, and I hope there's enough interest among the rest of us that we
won't need any more help.

Those of you who pmail should hear back from me in a week or so.  If this
turns into too big of a hassle - I'll probably just score what I want and
put his phone number on the lists next month.

So please, try to keep it simple.  Send me your wishlists - think vintage,
think speed, think 25/36hp, and don't ask me any questions that you want
answered anytime soon.  You now know everything that I do.  (Except for the
name and location of the stash, and I ain't talkin' yet.  :-)

Peace, Milo

