Date: Sat, 13 Oct 2001 01:53:15 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] 6 Volts times 2 = 12v?

>From: "Jay Cronen" <jcronen(-at-)excel.net>
>Date: Thu, 11 Oct 2001 10:16 -0500
>
>I have been searching the archives learning all I can about the 
>6 volt vs. 12 volt quagmire.

6 volt advantages:
* stock for early Buses
* people will give you 6 volt parts sometimes

6 volt disadvantages:
* requires more maintenance
* parts are sometimes hard to find or expensive
* can't run "modern" 12 volt audio equipment without a
  converter; available converters not good for much over
  25-50 watts or so 

12 volt advantages:
* requires less maintenance
* parts are more common and cheaper
* possible to run pretty much whatever equipment you want

12 volt disadvantages:
* not stock for early Buses
* have to pay money for parts
* may have to go through some contortions with fuel pump/carb/tin
  at initial conversion to get everything lined up

>Is it possible or desirable for my 63' camper to have two six volt 
>batteries wired up in such a manner to: A) provide a coach battery
>for ancillary 6-volt components and B) provide combined 12-volt
>current for a stereo or other accessories?

Possible, but probably not particularly easy or cheap.  You'd probably
have to go to a 12 volt generator to get both batteries charged; it is
possible to do it with a 6 volt generator but unless you can tell me
off the top of your head what a 2N3055 does then it's not possible
for you - not meant in a derogatory way, just trying to say that you
probably won't be able to buy an off-the-shelf solution; you'd have to
build it.  If you have to go to a 12 volt generator anyway, why not
go "whole hog" and convert to 12 volt?  That way you're not hauling
around two batteries, etc. 
 
>Would I need a split-charge system to avoid the equalization effect
>of two batteries hooked up together (parrallel or series I don't
>understand the difference)?

You need to understand the difference before undertaking a project
like this!  But it's pretty easy.

If you connect identical batteries in SERIES, the total voltage is 
  the sum of the voltages of all the batteries, and the total current
  available is the same as the current available from each individual
  battery.

If you connect identical batteries in PARALLEL, the total voltage is 
  the same as the voltage of each individual battery, and the total
  current available is the sum of the currents available from each
  individual battery.

If you hook two 6 volt, 77 amp-hour batteries in SERIES, you have a
12 volt, 77 amp-hour battery.  If you connect these same two batteries
in PARALLEL, you have a 6 volt, 154 amp-hour battery.

The problem with doing two 6 volt batteries with a 6 volt generator
is that you need the batteries to be connected in SERIES to get 12
volts for your stereo but they need to be connected in PARALLEL to
charge from the 6 volt generator.  You can't have them hooked up
both ways at the same time.  You can make a DC-DC converter to get
around this, but you have to know how. 
  
>I was thinking of physically locating the main starting battery in 
>the engine compartment where it belongs and the second auxillary
>battery under the bench seat area.

I would keep all batteries out of the passenger compartment.  Yeah,
I know, Bug batteries live under the seat.  The reason is that
batteries can make hydrogen when being charged.  Also, even if
well-maintained, they tend to have a little acid spillage, and
engine compartment rear corners are easier to replace than passenger
compartment floor.  :)  There's a nice place on the left side of
the engine compartment for a second battery, if you feel the need.   
 
>Another possibility is using a dedicated 12-volt battery for the 
>auxillary needs, charging it up every night with a battery
>charger/tender and leaving the 6-volt battery currently in use for
>starting & coach power needs.

A ham friend of mine with a stock '64 does this.  The Bus is 6-volt,
and he has a 12-volt deep cycle battery for his radio gear.  He puts
the 12-volt battery on a 110V charger when the Bus is in the garage.
In your Rivieria, you could get a "tender" type charger and wire
it permanently to the battery, and connect the 110v input to the
110v plug on the bumper.  Then it becomes as easy as "plugging in
the Bus" when it's in the garage.  

NOTE: If you do this, use a long enough cord to reach from the rear 
bumper, to the driver's seat, and to the outlet.  Plug the cord into
the bumper, run it around the outside of the Bus to the driver's
window, bring it through the window and loop it around the steering
column, and then back out the window the the outlet.  This is so you
don't space out and forget to unplug the cord before moving the Bus,
which you otherwise will do at some point.  If you really want to
spend money, you can get a panel-mount male 120v socket with a
solenoid in it that will spit the plug out when you turn on the 
ignition.  Check with your friendly local fire truck factory for a
lead on this item.

>Ideally though, I would like to have a setup similar to the way many
>motorhomes are equiped. In the systems I have seen, there is a selector
>switch (within driver reach) to utilize either one of two seperate
>batteries, or both, and also when plugged in to shore power both 
>batteries charge simultaneously.

You'll need to convert to 12 volt, install a battery isolator (about
$30 at NAPA) so that the generator charges both batteries, buy the
dash switch and relays, and the onboard charger.  There will be
some high-current wiring running around the engine compartment that
needs to be dressed correctly to prevent problems. 

>Some even have a 12-volt to 110vAC inverter on-board to provide 
>temporary 110v AC power.

If you only want to run lights, power tools, and most computer
power supplies, the cheapy inverters you get at Wal-Mart will work
fine for this job.  If you want to run a TV set then get a nice
one that actually puts out a sine wave.  Locate the inverter as
close to the battery as possible and use remote switches to turn
it on and off.  If the inverter you select has a cigarette lighter
plug input, you'll get better performance by cutting off the plug
and wiring it directly (via a fuse) to the battery.

>What is the best way to go?

Personally I'd just keep the 6 volt system, but I'm weird.  :)  
Since most of the fancier options are predicated on converting
to 12 volt anyway, I'd say to do that first with the standard
setup - generator/alternator, regulator, one battery.  Live with
that for a while, and if that isn't meeting your needs, then you
can spend more money and add more weight and complexity to the
system.  But if the single-battery config does what you want,
save your money for gas and oil and camping fees.  IMHO.

Matt Roberds


