Date: Tue, 27 Nov 2001 08:00:54 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: al brase <albeeee(-at-)home.com>
Subject: Keep Notes was: [T2] maiden voyage


WOW, this is what is best about the type2 list. Real data from real
experiments from known sources. I haven't been following this thread so
it's already probably been mentioned, but Boston Bob has years of research
and development work on these very problems. The next time I set one of
these lifters, I'll use his specs. They will be factory spec when Bentley
Publishing adopts the revision in a forthcoming printing of the Bible, if
they haven't already. Bob's got real data, and enough to prove confidence.
And it ain't data unless you write it down. And Bob proves it is possible
to generate better data than even the factory. Yeah, I know, Bob is a
Wasserboxer Guru, but the lifters prob is the same as the Air Cooled T-IV.

Bob's info certainly makes it apparent that regardless the settings, the
motor should be run for 20 minutes, then the compression verified as a
variance can exist with original factory spec. If there is an inbalance,
further adjustment is in order. It's the difference between, "Do this and
ASSUME all is well." or "Do this and VERIFY all is right." Then document it
to retain the value.

At 03:10 AM 11/27/2001 -0600, you wrote:
>
>I went through the setting procedure and found they were an average of 5-1/2
>turns down from no lash! And the thing ran fine for a couple of thousand
>miles!
>So, apparently they have a lot of travel in them.
>Al Brase

So, here's a jab at you, Al. Did your procedure include noting all data?
May well have, so good for you. Sounds like your help could improve his
procedure by noting what he did. 

The difference between a novice and an apprentice is the apprentice is been
taught by a journeyman/mentor the basic procedures. If you ain't got one of
those around, then as a novice you can only become an apprentice by
following what is written and writing down the numbers for comparison with
future knowledge. All manitenance and repair should be documented, and the
more details the better. My mentor in surveying used this phrase. "Paper's
cheap, use lots of it!". That was in the days before Gates. But even today,
if digitally generated data conflicts with written field notes, the writing
is better evidence and will control, and more especially over memory. The
older the writing, the more senior the priority. The older the memory, the
less priority. So if you don't write it down, do you trust when the brain
gets old, will the memory be there? If you find that piece of paper years
later in the file, be amazed how the memory is refreshed to a point of
certainty. 

Even if you just use post-it notes, stick them in the log book, and/or to
the relevant pages of Bentley. For a log book, I suggest a standard hard
bound surveyor's/engineer's field book would be ideal. The Level format
books are lined nicely for noting data in organized fashion with little
effort. Water resistant paper typical.  $14 retail, available at $7 with a
web search. But even a 99 cents spiral note pad is way better than nothing.
 


T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

