Date: Tue, 27 Nov 2001 12:02:22 -0500 (EST)
From: Elizabeth <beth(-at-)bethx.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: *sigh*

Be warned... this is a sad story of bus abuse. The names have been changed
to protect the guilty.....

A friend of a friend has a pretty nice 1978 transporter. Very nice rust
free body (at least for the east coast) and the interior isn't bad
either...

Now, said person is realllly harsh on her bus. It's been towed god knows
how many times because she couldn't move it for various reasons (blown
starter, blown *fuse*) all basically easy repairs that she neglected to
do. And if you've ever seen a major east coast city's towing crew there is
no way in hell you'd let one near a nice bus. Hell, I'd never let them
near a crappy bus. They're not the most graceful of people when it comes
to illegally parked cars.

Said friend takes bus on a 500 mile trip to North Carolina. Notices she's
low on oil while down in NC. Fills it up with oil. Drives back up. Bus
stalls on the way. Notices she has no more oil in the engine. Fills it up
again. Makes it to Virginia before it stalls again. Cripples it to a
hotel. Opens the engine compartment. Oil is *EVERYWHERE*. She forgot to
put the oil cap back on, so she claims. Pours in more oil. Turns it over.
(yes, i know, I was waiting to hear the word "major fire" right about at
this point too. Fortunately it didn't happen.) Oil is pouring out of the
passenger side of the engine. She says it's near the valve cover. Who
knows?

So, ok, I'm listening to this and am just horrified (but trying not to
show it). What she says next though made me want to cry...

Instead of getting it to hell, even a vw dealer, for what could be a
pretty simple fix (or a not so simple), she leaves it in the hotel parking
lot and treks back up north by calling a friend to pick her up.

And leaves the bus in Virginia.

For what must now be 3 weeks at least.

And, that's right, you guessed it, the hotel tows the bus. And she's mad
about it.

So, ok, the conclusion of the story of the battered and abused bus that
shouldn't have been battered and abused.

The bus is *somewhere* in a Fredricksburg Va tow yard. I don't know where,
exactly, i'll have more details tonight or tomorrow. I have no idea what
is wrong with it, engine wise, since i didn't look at it. Body wise, it's
pretty damn good. She wanted to know if anyone (me specifically) wants to
buy it. I told her that the storage fees alone might be around about what
it's worth (not only that but I have too many projects right now). I'm
fairly certain she'll hand it over to someone who is willing to get it out
of storage. I'll talk to her tonight and try to get more details.

So, yeah, anyone want to deal with a *VERY* flakey kid who should have
*never* owned a 22 year old bus in order to get a shot at something that
might or might not be an easy fix? ;)

Yeah, if anyone is interested in it let me know.

-beth

