From: "Bill Martin" <martinbi(-at-)u.washington.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 27 Nov 2001 11:15:59 -0800
Subject: oil leaker

sent a similar message a short time ago and haven't received any advice
yet - so i thought i'd try again...

my rebuild 1.8L in a 75 FI is finished, but leaking oil like mad - it was
leaking from two places, oil pump and the mystery leak - I ended up taking
the fan housing off twice, and killed the oil pump leak the second time with
very careful cleaning and sealing of that gasket...

the other leak - well i'm flabbergasted as to where it's coming from - i
thought it might be oil cooler seals but i replaced those and there's no
difference... i've cleaned the engine off a couple times and ran it, then
checked to see where i have oil and i really have it all over the bottom
left corner of the engine - doesn't look like it's leaking from the filter
bracket, doesn't look like it's leaking from the pressure sensor - i did
notice that the pushrod closest to that point (#4 exhaust - furthest toward
the rear of the van on the left side) had oil on the bottom with a small
drop by the seal in the head... i replaced those seals but to no effect...
the other possibility is the oil galley plug directly under the pressure
sensor port, which was tapped and plugged by my machine shop... when i
pulled the cooler off i noticed a thin thin sheen of oil on top of it...

so my main question is - is it possible for an oil leak that shows up on the
bottom of that pushrod to come from anywhere other than the pushrod seals?
i'm going to clean it all up again tonight and run it while sitting under
there with a flashlight so i can see where the oil first appears - ah my
back already aches just thinking about it...

another question - in adjusting my FI i've pretty much tuned it by ear for
now (as soon as i get the oil leak fixed i'll bring it to my mechanic to do
the CO)... but i had a lack of power going uphill... before i drove it,
actually before i succesfully started it i spent a week trying to figure out
why the engine wouldn't start (forgot to hook up the FI to coil power wire -
that was an argh moment) i did a compression check and all four were around
85 - now this is a brand new engine with the valves set correctly - but it
had never been run so i'm sure it didn't have oil in the cylinders - would
this be not unexpected to get such low numbers on a rebuilt engine that
hadn't run yet? i'll probably do a compression check again soon too - engine
has run for a total of about an hour and a half now, albeit with the oil
leaks...

thanks!

bill

thanks!!

