From: "David & Laura" <dnlb(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Stevie Havoc" <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>, <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>
Cc: "VW - Type 2 mailing list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 19 Aug 2004 21:44:53 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Fire Extinguishers,

| Anyone else gotten some use out of theirs ?
|
| Steve


On a mildly bus related level in the recent past...

I came upon a mattress someone had dumped on the side of a highway entrance
ramp.
I don't know if it was rotting and creating heat, or if it got hit with a
cigarette.
Either way as I approached it I saw smoke rising.
By the time I got past it, flames were licking all around.
I jusmped out with great speed (and great distance, trying to keep the bus
safe) to get to work.
I swept the extinguisher and kept it low and got nearly all the flames.
I ran out with just enough flames left to kick 'em into the dirt before they
got the edge on me.
As I was packing it all back up, the BIG fire truck came with 4 guys hanging
off.
Someone had seen the bus pilot doing battle and called in the big guns.
They thanked me and like Steve, I too decided a bigger can would serve me
well in the future.

On a more intimately Volkswagen level, a '76 Rabbit story...long, long
ago...

I was going back to school one night with my brother following behind me.
I was in the Rabbit, he in an old Datsun 510.
We had just made the pre-trip gas/oil/coolant check and set off into the
night.
As we climbed one of the longer hills, I noticed a good deal of smoke coming
out from under my hood.
We pulled off to check out the damage.
As I opened the hood, I had just ehough time to see that the 710 cap (old
OIL joke) was off.
Pretty much as soon as I noticed the cap, I noticed the flames.
The oil had apparently settled into the cracks of the exhaust manifold and
caught fire.
We started to beat it with our shirts and jackets only to see we were just
fanning the flames.
Bert (my brother) then ran up with the remainder of his Coke from Krystal
and doused what he could.
When that wasn't quite enough, we found an old drink in the back of the
Rabbit and hit it with that.
All of that seemed to do the trick, and definitely made two new fire
extinguisher converts out of us.
I always travel with one now, and try to have a Halon one if at all
possible.
They don't have the corrosive effects that the chemical ones do.

I will sit back and wait for some of your stories to pour in now...

brotherdave
-----------------------------------------------------------------

'78 Westfalia
'77 Bus
'75 FrankenKamper
'74 Beetle
