Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 07:39:31 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: [T2] TGIF: Come on baby, light my fire! (was: Fire

Hi Volks!

David & Laura wrote:
> We started to beat it with our shirts and jackets only to see we were just
> fanning the flames.
> Bert (my brother) then ran up with the remainder of his Coke from Krystal
> and doused what he could.
> When that wasn't quite enough, we found an old drink in the back of the
> Rabbit and hit it with that.

Heh.

Picture this scene:  A small village in Germany, a handful
of people waiting at a bus stop on the one major road that
goes through it.  From the north there comes an old, ratty,
rusty VW Polo trailing a rather notable cloud of smoke.
In no discernible hurry, the Polo pulls over at the bus
stop.  Trails of smoke rise from its grille and hood vents
as a young, long-haired hippie type gets out of the car.
He walks to the front, opens the hood, and observes a nice
yellow flame burning merrily on the exhaust manifold.

The guy walks to the rear of the car, still in no visible
hurry, and opens the trunk, which contains a crate of
Flensburger Pilsener (beer).  He seems to calculate the
relative value and hassle of having to replace the car vs.
the beer.  Having come to the conclusion that the car, despite
its poor overall condition, is still slightly more valuable 
and harder to replace than the beer, he takes two bottles
of beer out and walks back to the front of the car.  He opens
both bottles and, reluctantly, douses the flame with beer.
Success: no fire, one and a half bottles spent.

Drinking up the half-empty bottle while walking back to the
rear, putting the empty bottles into the trunk, closing same,
starting the engine on his way back to the front, taking a
last look at the engine idling, closing the hood, getting back
behind the wheel and taking off at a leisurely pace, the
Polo driver leaves behind: one medium-sized oil spill, one
medium-sized cloud of smoke, and one handful of severly
disturbed individuals at the bus stop, who presumably are 
still telling this story to this day, some ten years later, 
just like the Polo driver does:

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik, oh, and it was the oil pressure sensor leaking.
-- 
I have this tendency not to name things.  I call this tendency
"George."
        -- Beth Friedman in a.r.c., fopund in a.h.b-o-u.
