Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 08:48:25 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Re: Fire Extinguishers,

>From: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>
>
>Well today my Bustinguisher came in handy, not to put out a bus, but to
>put out a trade-mans truck ! I have always had vision of saving some
>other bus, but this is almost as cool.
>
>Anyone else gotten some use out of theirs ?

I have used my bus extinguisher twice, once on my own bus and once on 
another persons car.

On mine it was a cold, snowy, rainy day. I was in the middle lane of three 
lanes of traffic starting out from a stoplight going up a good hill. As I 
went to shift into second the gas pedal didn't come up. Didn't come up on 
the next shift either. I pulled to the right and onto an exit ramp, 
downshifting back to second to keep the speed down. I had to hit the clutch 
to slow down. I couldn't turn off the key because I was going around a 
corner and it would have locked the steering wheel. I had one brief glimpse 
of the tach heading north from 5000 (bone stock engine) before I got over 
and shut her down. I smelled burning through the heater vents as I pulled 
over, so I went around to see what was going on. When I opened the hatch, 
the carb and filter were burning and there was gas pouring out of the 
burned gas line, feeding the fire. I ran back up front and grabbed the 
extinguisher and went back and hosed out the fire. But, the gas was still 
pouring out of the hose and there were still embers on the plastic parts. I 
went back to the tool box and grabbed some vice grips and clamped off the 
hose and put out a little secondary fire that had restarted. The worst part 
of the whole ordeal was that the security guards at the adjacent mall 
wouldn't let me use the phone. I was scary looking, covered with soot and 
reeking of gasoline, but they were total asses.

The second time was a family on the interstate in an older American car, 
like a Caprice. I guess they left the emergency brake on or something 
because their passengers side rear tire had caught fire while they were 
driving! It took all of the extinguisher that I had and still didn't go 
out. (Again, the gas tank is right next to the wheel well on those cars). 
But, I was on my way camping and had a 5 gallon Jenny Can of water and that 
did the trick.

So, where do you mount your extinguisher? I mount mine just in front of the 
steering column where it is easy to grab and I won't bump it or trip over 
it. I see other people mount theirs next to the seat (walkthrough) or other 
places under the dash. I also see it in the rear area on campers (Not as 
useful if you need it while driving). The worst place I see them is under 
the rear seat on campers. Won't do you any good in a fire when you need to 
put your hand on it right away.

This thread had reminded me that I need to get one for the Wifes new 
minivan. The old Passat had one, but I left it in the car when I sold it. 
Going to Home Depot today anyway, Ill add it to the list....

Chris 
