Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 07:59:10 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>, Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] TGIF: Come on baby, light my fire! (was: Fire

"Drinking up the half-empty bottle while walking back to the
rear, putting the empty bottles into the trunk, closing same,"

One day in Rome there was this Italian fellow that was zipping down the road in his Fiat 500 (imagine half scale Beetle with 12 HP) at 80 kph - almost top speed. He notices the smell of something burning. He stops, gets out and and opens the engine lid to find that the firewall insulation (or heater hose?) had fallen against the hot engine setting it on fire. His beloved little pet Fiat was going to perish in seconds... 

The car being small had no room for beers, water, or expressos. Besides with 12 HP, every bit of weight savings helps reinforce the driver's chances in getting to work on time. (Is there a concept as "on time" in Italy?) It appeared his tiny Fiat would burn before his eyes. 

Suddenly a blue Beetle with American military plates screeches to a halt in front of his Fiat and an American (or is he German - many Italians could not decide) jumps out, throws the Beetle hood open, and retrieves a full fire extinguisher. Those Americans with their "big" cars carry everything! Without a word he hands the Italian fellow the extinguisher which saves the little Fiat from the junkyard. 

As the Italian's face breaks into a thankful grin, he looks up just in time to see the American roar off with a wave. 

The Italian fellow trys to run after the Beetle to thank him, to invite him to dinner, or offer the American the Italian fellow's sister's hand in marriage but with 40 HP pushing it along, the Beetle is gone before you could say "Spaghetti Vongle with a Capresse salad follow by a large Capuccino with much froth top. Please add three sugars and bring it after dinner. The weather has been nice - hot and dry but I like it that way at this time of the year. Say, where did you go for a vacation this year? Is your sister doing better? How are the kids. I hear they caught another Camorra hitman this past week in Vomero. Thank you very much, it tasted wonderful. I'll be sure to come back next week and try your Wednesday special. Goodbye!"

The American worried all the way home (several hours) that his little Beetle might suffer a similar fiery fate - but would someone stop to help him? Alas 3 hours later, the Beetle came to a rest in the driveway of the American's Lago Patria villa safe and sound.


See ya.

Chris
