To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: James Fritz <jfritz(-at-)alpinecom.net>
Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 16:01:57 -0500
Subject: Northern Iowa Fall Campout

Volks,
Well, at least for now, the mantle has been passed.  Budd Premack 
"encouraged" me to organize a camping weekend for this fall.  Busses 
Over the Rainbow was started by Budd in the spring of 2003 and we've 
gathered twice for VW commraderie at Lanesboro, Minnesota so far.  We 
enjoyed each others  company enough to decide we wanted to try it 
again.  So, we're doing it this fall at a new, slightly more southern, 
location.

I've checked out many campgrounds in the Tri-State area and honestly, 
one I can recommend  most highly is right in my hometown: Decorah, 
Iowa.  So, I am officially announcing the 1st Fall Busses Over the 
Rainbow campout at the Pulpit Rock Campground in Decorah for the 
weekend of September 17-19.  Pulpit Rock is a beautiful campground 
located directly on the scenic Upper Iowa River with the Twin Springs 
trout stream also running through it.  There are 75 gravel sites and 79 
grass sites with electrical hook-ups, restroom and showers, playground, 
etc.  Price is $12 for non-electric and $14 for electric.  The 
campground is connected to Decorah via a lighted, paved bike/walking 
trail that runs along the bluffs and the river.  Decorah is the home of 
the Vesterheim Museum (nation's largest museum devoted to a single 
ethnic group - Norwegian), Luther College, the Seed Savers, Dunning 
Springs, the Decorah Trout Hatchery, and much more.  There is also 
canoeing, kayaking, tubing, biking, boutique shopping, antique-ing, and 
more for your entertainment.

I will reserve (following confirmation from each of you) an appropriate 
amount of space in adjoining campsites (probably electric (-at-)$14 per 
night).  You will all need to pay/register upon your arrival but the 
space will be reserved.  In addition, there are several wonderful B&Bs 
and the newly restored historic Winneshiek Hotel for those who may wish 
to forgo the camping experience.  Email me for details.

Friday evening will be a time to renew old acquaintances around the 
campfire ring.  As its also Homecoming week for Decorah High School, 
there's the opportunity to catch a little of Americana at the local 
high school football field.  Due to the fact that I'm the high school 
band director, I'll be a little late getting to the campfire but I'll 
be there!

On Saturday we'll poll the group for day trips.  We have many options 
including the Vesterheim, Seed Savers, and other local areas of 
interest and beauty or we may take a more extended road trip to the 
Effigy Mounds National Monument and Pikes Peak (view 4 states from a 
single overlook) in Marquette, Iowa along the Mississippi (probably 100 
mile round trip).  We'll decide this as a group.

I have several requests from each of you:  first RSVP if you plan to 
attend so that I might better plan the weekend.  secondly, tell your 
friends.  third, email any suggestions for activities, ideas, etc. that 
you might have.

I look forward to seeing you all at Pulpit Rock on the 17-19th!

Jim in Iowa
89 Westy GL
91 Passat Wagon GL
66 Beetle
