From: "Will Anderson" <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 17:05:05 -0400
Subject: tour's end trip report

josh wrote:
>the bus is doing great! i went to the dead show in it
>last night with will, and it was great!

after many trials we made it to Atlanta in the '73 Pumpkin after leaving the
kind abode of Rob H.  Yesterday's adventure was a blowout on one of the
older rear tires.  the rears were old Michelins--should have not driven
them, and the expected scenario did happen, the fronts were new and
therefore were fine (At TransporterWerks in Raleigh I had replaced the
fronts with YKS 185R14C Load Range D rated at about 1900 lbs!! these are
beefy tires), and the rears were old and thus one blew out in 100 degree
heat at high speed on I-85 at Lake Hartwell, Tasha was driving and she was
pretty freaked out by the whole BOOM thing so I suggested she go swimming as
the lake was just down the embankment.  unfortunately the spare was even
more rotten so we didn't dare proceed, we limped 15 miles to the metropolis
of Westminister SC.  Of course we had a hard time finding the right size
tires, the first shop wouldn't install low-rated passenger tires because of
liability, but we still had to get down the road, so we found another tire
shop that would sell tires that would suffice for a short time rather than
getting a tow truck.  I assured the gentleman that these tires will be
spares and not driven on a regular basis.  Flame suit on.  I always have to
learn everything the hard way, but rotten old (or unknown) tires are death.
We were particularly lucky that this bus is equipped with heavy-duty front
and rear sway bars and rear coilovers which made it extremely stable even
without a rear tire. (when I saw that stuff I realized I might be buying
this bus to keep it in the family).  I will post a photo of the blown tire
when Tasha emails it to me.

Anyway once we got going again we knew we would be late for the show but we
stopped to get Josh on the way.  got in for Truckin' which was the 1st set
closer.  Also got a GDTRFB in the second set which was fun and apropos.
first day in Raleigh was a Wheel, also fit with the bus repair theme.

Tasha just called from outside of Charlotte on her way taking the bus home
to Durham, she says the exhaust leak sound has gotten worse--we are worried
that it might be a rod knock but how would we be sure?  This engine only has
30k since rebuild. . . ummm.  When do you draw the line to stop.  how loud a
knock is too loud?  Still getting to know this machine, maybe Pumpkin
doesn't want to be awakened from her 3 year slumber.

Thanks to Rob for his hospitality and to Joel for offering to lend tools and
hanging out, and thanks again to all the AIRS folks who offered to help in
Durham.  BTW isn't it time to revamp the AIRS site a little bit?  I know it
takes a lot of maintenance.  I can work on the backend database if someone
else can help with the front end.

best wishes,
Will A.
