From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <nik(-at-)tfrec.wsu.edu>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 17:11:21 -0500
Subject: exhaust manifold studs

>Oh what a pain but I got my exhaust system off in the hopes of killing my
>catalytic converter and cleaning things up a bit. Ended up breaking a stud
>in the process, can I get new ones?

Yes you can get a replacement stud, but you caused a lot of extra work, extra
time and extra expense for yourself.

In the future, if the exhaust stud nut does not screw off very easily, do not
try to screw it off at all.

Instead, get a very sharp small metal chisel and a light hammer and cut the
nut in half cutting on one side. Do not beat the begibbers out of it. Do not
hit very hard at all. Light taps with a small hammer and a sharp chisel will
easily cut the nut in half. If you hit too hard you can break the head. The
chisel must be as sharp as a woodworker's chisel. You do dull the chisel and
have to sharpen it between each nut you cut off. Sometimes all you have to do
is to crack the nut and it will get really loose and you can unscrew it with
pliers or tap it around in the unscrewing direction with the chisel. It is
much better to sacrifice the cheap nut and spend a little time at the grinder
sharpening your chisel compared to all the time and expense of replacing a
broken off stud.

Replace all the head exhaust stud nuts with special application copper
(plated) self-locking nuts. These nuts are the standard 8mm thread but they
have a different than normal 13mm wrench size hex flats. They have a smaller
12mm wrench hex flats so it is easier to get them on in a tight place. Clean
up the stud threads with a die and a polish them with a wire brush.
Generously coat the threads with a special application high temperature
anti-seize compound for the next time you want to get the nuts off. If you
have any exposed threads left showing, cover those threads with an extra nut
or two. This keeps those exposed threads from being eaten away.

Now how to replace your broken off exhaust stud. If you don't already know
what to do, don't do this, because it requires skill obtained only through
lots of practice. It is not a good idea to practice on expensive head because
it is very easy to completely ruin a head. You must grind the end of the stud
as flat as possible. This makes it easier to use a center punch and actually
punch the center of the stud for the starting point of the special drill bit.
You first start the hole using a drill bit called a "center bit". You don't
always have to use one of these special bits, but using this bit helps insure
a nice perfectly positioned center drill hole. Then you drill out the center
of the broken off stud with the exact size drill bit according to the "easy
out" you will use. An "easy out" is a backward left hand tapered spiral bit.
You gently hammer this bit into the hole to get the "easy out" to bite into
the stud. Then you quickly heat up the area around the stud. You get best
results when you use a super hot flame like from an oxygen-acetylene torch.
You only want to heat up the area around the stud to cause that area to get
bigger and make a bigger hole to loosen the grip on the stud. If you use a
wimpy air propane flame, you may end up heating up everything including the
stud which will cause the stud to get as big as the bigger hole and defeat
the whole purpose of heating. Then quickly you use a wrench or socket to turn
the "easy out" in the UN-screwing direction. While unscrewing, you also
gently hit the end of the "easy out" with a hammer to set up vibrations to
help bust the stud loose. This action forces the "easy out" into the hole
even tighter and sometimes the stud will just unscrew. You must know the
following from experience. You must use LESS un-screwing force than it takes
to break off the "easy out" . If you can't easily unscrew the broken off stud
with the "easy out", then STOP trying before you break off the "easy out". If
you break off the "easy out" in the stud you have a really tough job drilling
out the very very hard "easy out". An exhaust stud is soft butter compared to
the hardness of the metal an "easy out" is made of.

If the "easy out" method does not work, then you must resort to "drilling out
the stud". This requires a much more precise positioning of the drill hole
than for the easy out. You must drill out the exact exact center of the stud.
You use larger and larger drill bits to drill out the stud entirely. You must
not drill out the hole as large as the female threads in the head. Sometimes
you can drill for a while and then gently try using a bigger "easy out" .
When the stud is drilled out, you use a tap to remove the remaining threads.

It is difficult to do this job using the best equipment in the best of
conditions: with the head bolted down to the indexable table of a big drill
press. I have down this lying under a bus in freezing cold weather with just
a hand drill. But I consider myself very lucky that it worked and I do say
that I have had a lot of practice and I am very skilled at this especially if
I say so myself.

If you have a Type IV head, you have a very specialized very expensive weirdo
exhaust stud size. It is a combination thread of

9mm X 1.25 -- 8 mm

Most machinist will not believe that it is that weird 9mm size.

I sure wish you had known about the sharp chisel method of nut removal before
you busted off that stud. I sure I had known about the sharp chisel method of
nut removal before I busted off an exhaust stud.
