From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "Nik Wiman" <nik(-at-)tfrec.wsu.edu>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 20 Aug 2004 23:13:53 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] exhaust manifold studs

> Gary, Thank you for taking the time to give me such a detailed reply.  I
> knew I didn't want to break the stud- it just broke so easily with only a
> small wrench on the nut.  This is my first bus and everything is a learning
> process, but I think you already sensed this.  I have a couple questions if
> you don't mind:

It is a learning experience for everybody, the first time.

I am sure you are going to get different or additional advice from the
type2(-at-)type2.com list members. Lots of advice is a good thing. Sometimes
someone comes up with the easiest, cheapest, most dependable, best way to do
something.

My answers are only my answers about what has worked for me.

Sometimes you do "find" a stud that does break off with only normal twisting
force (torque) put on it. You need to find some perfect words to utter for
just such occasions. I don't know why this helps, but it does.

I always put stuff back together thinking of  the next guy who takes it
apart. I want that next guy to know that I put it together thinking of him. I
don't re-use nuts or bolts with rounded off edges. I use the correct gasket
compound or anti-sieze compound, I put it together correctly, and I put it
together to be taken apart. etc. It might just be me that takes it apart or
hopefully, somebody else 20 years for now, because my stuff is still on the
road.

You should get a good "torque wrench".  This is a tool that measures and or
applys only the exact twisting force you want to use and no more. Get the
Bently Factory Service manual and look up the torque specifications for
things you put together.

>
> 1.  My plan was to crank the stud out with vice-grips on the broken off
end.
> But from your description it sounds like the stud is glued/welded on?

Well, the nut was corroded onto the stud. The nut was holding on harder than
the twisting strength of the stud. That is wy the stud broke before the nut
unscrewed. The stud is in the case to stay. Over the years it has "cold
welded" itself into the head. It is held in with corrosion between the head
female threads and the stud male threads.

It is a good thing, that you have a nib of the stud to grab a hold of. It
just might unscrew. Use a superior liquid wrench product called PB Blaster.
Get this liquid all over the threads. Tippy tap gently on the end of the stud
and do not try to take out the stud. The next day get the liquid all over the
threads and tippy tap gently on the end of the stud. After a couple of days
of the soaking, or when you run out of time, try to remove the stud. If you
have heat use it. You do not want to melt the head or catch anything on fire
so if you have never seen anybody use heat, get some hands on advice. Then
grab the nib with new Vise Grip brand Vise Grips. Adjust the Vise Grips to
grab as strong as you can squeeze them together. Then try to unscrew the
stud, if it moves a little, spray it again, wiggle a little, spray again,
maybe screw in in and out, always coming out a little more than going in. DO
NOT SPRAY AND COOL OFF ANYTHING YOU HAVE HEATED UNTIL IT HAS COOLED OFF TO
TOUCHING TEMPERATURE.

>
> 2.  So I would have to go to a machinist to get the new stud made?  They're
> not commercially available?

I am sorry, I did not explain it very well. Only the Type IV head has the
weird rare and two kinds of threads. The old bug engines have regular
straight 8mm threads. The normal 8mm threads are available almost everywhere
at FLAPS and automotive machine shops. Replacing broken studs is as common as
buying gasoline. However, the weirdo stud is available only at specialized VW
shops and at lots of specialized VW internet stores.

Automotive machinists are really good at removing and replacing broken off
studs, but they just get the studs off the shelf (unless you have some weird
old Indian Motorcycle with weird non-metric non-american "non-inch" threads)
>
> 3.  I've successfully tapped a few bolts, wouldn't I want to knock off the
> rest of the stud so I'm tapping to just above the hole?

Yea, that is what I tried to explain until you told me that you have enough
of a nub to try the soak and Vise Grip twist out.

I said to grind off the broken stud end to a perfectly flat end. Most of my
broken studs break off right up next to the block or the case or the head.
But the edges of the broken stud are at many angles. So I grind off the stud
end to a flat surface so that it is easier for me to make a precise location
center punch mark to guide the center drill.

You use a <tap> to tap a hole to cut threads on the sides of a hole so that
you can screw in a bolt. You use a <die> to cut threads on the outside of a
rod to make the rod into a bolt or a stud. So you can't have "successfully
tapped a few bolts" . You can have successfully tapped a few bolt HOLES. A
bolt hole is just like a stud hole. A bolt has a nice easy to grab end on it
(e.g. hex head). A stud has threads on both ends. If you drill out most of
the broken off stud, you can use a tap to clean out the rest of the stud's
threads' pieces that are blocking up the original female threads. The trick
is to drill the stud out and not damage the original female threads. If you
do ruin the original hole threads, sometimes you can drill them out oversize
and use the next largest sized tap to make threads for the next larger sized
stud. But this is an iffy fix and necessitates many more corrective iffy
fixes to make up for the misaligned oversized stud. The exhaust studs on a
Type IV engine don't have much room for iffy fixes.

Another way to get out a broken off stud is to use a method I have not tried.
You use a MIG wire welder or small diameter stick welder and you weld a nut
onto the nib or onto the tiny nib of the broken stud, then you unscrew the
stud using the new nut head hold. You want to weld the nut onto the stud
without overly heating up everything else. If this method fails, you can
always go back to the drill it , easy out, or completly drill it out method.

I suggest that you do not attempt this repair yourself, it is just too easy
to ruin the stud hole and ruin the head. If you ruin the hole, maybe, just
maybe the hole can be filled up with welding and retapped.

good luck.
