Date: Thu, 23 May 2002 15:00:19 -0700
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Goodbye to an old friend

Tomorrow morning my daughter is taking my '70 sunroof Bus, Gordon,
back to Minnesota so I've been busy the past few days making sure its
ready for the trip.  The engine was rebuilt about 3000 miles ago by a
man I trust and I have put several long trips, including one to L.A.
on it so I'm pretty confident about the engine.  I replaced lower ball
joints (never got the top drop arm loose) last week and this was the
last real area of concern I've had about the Bus.  But, I will be
chewing my nails until she gets there because this is a girl who once
blew up 3 Chevy engines in a year by running them out of oil.  She
seems to have gotten better about taking care of things since she
moved out there but I still have made a very concerted effort to
impress certain things upon her while she's been out here this week.
To wit, the OIL and GEN lights are not to be taken lightly.  I have a
Berg dipstick mounted that WILL let her know if she pushes too hard
for too long and have impressed upon her the danger in a broken belt.
I taught her how to adjust the valves last night and went over other
maintenance items (oil change, brake adjustment) with her last night.
I also have an electronic ignition installed so she shouldn't have to
play with points or timing.  All in all, I'm pretty confident that
this Bus can be reliable transportation for her for some time and she
seems to be bonding with it fairly well so I should have a little
faith, right?

But, if any of you see a '70 covered in red oxide primer (her recent
addition) on the side of the road between San Jose and Minneapolis
please stop.  She has a pretty good set of tools and parts for most
normal emergencies.  And, if you just see her cruising by give her a
wave.

In the mean time I'll be bonding with my new '71 Adventurewagen.

--
Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org
www.fraternaltwins.homestead.com
Oo\ /oO


