From: Mfitzsim(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 24 May 2002 02:43:18 EDT
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: pulling a type 4 engine from a late bus

Greetings all,

A compression test this morning confirmed that my 79 westie has "issues".  
Two cylinders showed 140 lbs of pressure and two cylinders showed 75 lbs of 
pressure.  This definitely puts a damper on the road/camping/birding trip 
plans to Malheur this weekend!

Anyway, its a bit frustrating since this is a Mofoco rebuild with less than 
6000 miles on it!  (I didn't learn about their reputation until_after_I 
joined the lists).  Needless to say, the heads will have to come off to start 
the troubleshooting.

Since I frequently hear on the list how awful type 4 engines are to work on, 
difficult to pull, dangerous to handle etc., this seemed like a golden 
opportunity to document what it_really_takes to remove one from a bus and 
dismantle.

So...... I first stopped on the way home from work and picked up some Alaskan 
Amber Ale to help the process along and reduce frustration.  I got home and 
swept the driveway a bit, then backed the bus up so it sat about 4 feet from 
the garage door.

I had a bite to eat and let things cool down.  I got into my grubby clothes 
and went to work at 7:20 PM,  I started by draining the oil and worked at a 
constant rate without rushing things.  At 8:50PM I had the engine out from 
under the bus and onto the garage floor.  (barely enough time to contemplate 
a second beer!)  A few notes: I did_not_remove the bolts at the top of the 
transaxle.  I removed the exhaust system and heater boxes as a single 
unit_before_I dropped the engine.  I removed the rear tin, oil filler, coil 
and fan screen_before_I pulled the engine back and away from the trans.

I took a break, finished dinner, then started at 9:35PM to dismantle it to a 
"long block state" .  I had just finished removing the fan shroud and small 
tin pieces when I heard the 10:00PM news on the radio.  I did not remove the 
oil cooler or flywheel.

Tools used:
2 10mm box/open wrench
1 13mm box/open wrench
1 17mm box/open wrench
1 3/8" drive ratchet 
1 6" ratchet extension
8, 10, 13 and 19mm sockets
1 6mm allen wrench
1 channel lock pliers
1 small adjustable wrench
1 "stubby" slotted screwdriver
1 regular size slotted screwdriver
1 regular size phillips screwdriver
1 rubber hammer
1 trouble light
1 floor jack

So there you have it.  The big, bad, scary, complicated, heavy, impossible to 
work on, generally awful type 4 bus engine took 1.5 hours to remove and 
another half hour to dismantle in an open driveway after work.  

I will qualify all of this with a more notes:
I have done this before, I did not need to consult the Bentley manual.
The bus is a westfalia camper, so their were a few more wires to contend with.
It has K-jet fuel injection instead of the stock L-jet, but I'm not certain 
it made things much easier.
All fasteners were clean, rust was_not_a factor.

mark fitzsimons
Portland, OR 
