Date: Fri, 24 May 2002 11:41:52 -0500
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)metrowerks.com>
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Installed Bentley CD-ROM


My Bentley 68-79 CD-ROM arrived in the mail.  I must say my excitement was
completely destroyed by the installation experience.

In a nutshell do not try to use Virtual PC on the Mac.  Use the latest
Windows OS you have on an x86 box and make sure you have IE 5.0 already
installed.  I tried Win98SE because they said it was supported but I never
got it to work properly.

When you get everything installed you get the limited eBahn web browser that
embeds the Acrobat plugin.

There is a registration process that keeps you from installing it on more
than one computer.  You have to remove it, then go to another machine and
re-register.

Their browser is missing the internet options so you can't set it up to
register you through the firewall/proxy I don't think: failed when I tried.

I registered online from home (no firewall) but trying my work machine
failed.  I called up their tech support and read them a 32-digit number and
another 16-digit number and they gave me a new 32-digit number to access the
content.  I've never installed anything so complicated just to view
hyper-linked PDF files but I guess this is just their copy-protection scheme
make it hard on the honest guy who actually bought it.

Once I got it installed on a fast machine, It's pretty easy to use.
Digesting the information...

On 5/20/02 9:24 AM, "The Bus Depot" wrote:

> The CD's use Bentley's eBahn software (included), for searching, etc. but
> the fiche files themselves are PDF's. (Bentley has warned me that due to the
> size of the files, access is quite slow.)  Since it is possible to read .pdf
> files in Mac, etc. I asked whether the pdf's could be accessed from the disc
> without the use of eBahn (thereby working on a non-Windows PC), and was told
> no.  Supposedly, even though they are pdf files, they are not saved as .pdf
> file extensions.  I don't know if Bentley merely renamed the extensions to
> "force" you to use their eBahn reader or whether it's more than that.  So,
> knowing that these are pdf's,  I would guess that there might be a way to
> make one read in Mac, but I certainly wouldn't guarantee it (and Bentley
> won't support it),.  Therefore we'll have to call it Windows-only
> until/unless a listmember proves otherwise.  Full details on this disk are
> at http://www.bentleypublishers.com/product.htm?code=VFAC .

All true.  You can't read the PDF files from the CD.

The only good news for Mac users (if you have a Win32 machine around) is
that you can export the PDFs through the embedded Acrobat plugin and
transfer them over to a Mac.  All the hyperlinks are broken and I think each
document is security protected so you can't use Acrobat Pro to re-link them.

However the structure is pretty simple so you could just re-organize it into
a folder layout on your hard drive.

fiche index:
    group index:
        group document

