From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'incynr8'" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>,
Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2002 11:54:45 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] steering & suspension

That's what I was thinking when I set out to raise the truck back to stock.
Whoever lowered the front end must have decided to remove some leaves rather
than buy a drop kit. It had to be that way because the arms are right at the
stop and I have no spring. The only thing that even holds my trailing arms
off the stops is my gas shocks, and now my coil over shocks installed last
night. (Man, I can't believe how easy front shocks are on this thing to
install). If they had used drop spindles or drop arms I would still have
full spring in the torsion bars.

My rear end was just a matter of pulling the spring plates and torsion bars
and adjusting the spring plates on them back to factory 20 degrees from
frame level. I built my own spring plate compression tool and degree plate
from pictures out of the manual. Worked so slick I thought I could go into
the rear end raising back to stock business!

67 Single Cab
71 Trike
VolksAir
Ray, Kent WA
The water is boiling, the frog just doesn't know it yet


-----Original Message-----
From: incynr8 [mailto:incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org]
Sent: Tuesday, February 05, 2002 11:42 AM
To: 'Heath, Raymond E'; VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com; Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] steering & suspension


You would need to pull the spindles and measure the offset from top
trailing arm eye to lower arm, and compare to VW specs. Most offset
should not be more or less than 6mm. This will tell you if you have bent
arms. Pulling on the arms after spindle is removed can help reveal
broken or loose/sloppy leaves, but not as well as removal and
inspection, and then you might as well replace them anyway.
Sounds like someone fux0red them (leaves) to lower your bus....

-----Original Message-----
From: Heath, Raymond E [mailto:raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com]
Sent: Tuesday, February 05, 2002 2:22 PM
To: 'VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com'; Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] steering & suspension


That's why I love this group!
To answer your questions, no, my trailing arms, which I somehow
mistakenly call swing arms, do not seem to bent in any way. The rubber
on the bottom of the stops is where it is worn off, I can't possbly
guess how the rubber on the top of the stops could ever get worn off in
a lowered condition unless your suspension drops down repeatedly instead
of being forced up. And yes, I checked my manual pictures agaisnt my
front end and it looks stock. I have seen pictures in Hot VW of the
lowering adjusters and I don't have that stuff welded on my torsion bar
tubes. Ands as far as the snap, crackle and pop goes, quit cheering me
up ! I think I hear that kind of thing going on on my passenger side.
For the last month or so I have heard odd thunking noise from that side
and now have attributed it to your e-mail descriptions, thanks for
making me feel safer !

67 Single Cab
71 Trike
VolksAir
Ray, Kent WA
The water is boiling, the frog just doesn't know it yet


-----Original Message-----
From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Tuesday, February 05, 2002 11:09 AM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] steering & suspension


In a message dated 2/5/2002 10:02:53 AM Pacific Standard Time,
raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com writes:
> The second item is front suspension. I know my torsion bars are either
> broke, out of alignment or in some other way not right. My front end
sits
> nearly down to the stops which have no rubber left on that side.

Hi Ray,
Is that the top side of the rubber stops you mean?  Congrats on getting
the
steering to work!

 each and > every little bump bangs my front end. The swing arms look to
be
> stock, but how can one tell?

If the trailing arms are that badly bent you would be able to tell from
looking at the Bus shop manual photos.

 everything down there seems to be equally greasy, but > since I bought
this

> truck in a lowered condition and was able to properly raise the rear,
> I am

> perplexed as to what to do with the front. Right now I am running
> 750lb
> coil over shocks that I put on yesterday that raises it back to stock
> height, but it also rides like a, well, truck. What to do with my
daily
> driver to see what's wrong with the suspension?
>

Does your front end have the lowering adjusting parts welded in the
center of
the front beam?  If so you need to jack up your bus and install jack
stands.

Then adjust the front suspension so the wheels end up as far down as
possible.
  If the DPO removed some of the spring leaves the remaining leaves
could be

snap, crackle, popping and ready to let the trailing arms to pop out of
the
front end while you are driving!  If sprong leaves are missing then you
need

to remove them and install new ones.   Eric&Barb

---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com Donations
help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html

