From: "Heath, Raymond E" <raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com>
To: "'Westfalia'" <swharris(-at-)earthlink.net>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 5 Feb 2002 12:16:37 -0800 
Subject: RE: [VB] Worlds longest rebuild?

I have been building motors for 25 years, and except for customer changes,
it usually takes me about eight hours to put a motor together and load it up
on the startup stand. Prep time is another thing. When you are doing onesy
twosy engines, you have to check over everything for that engine and you
usually don't have matched set rods, pistons, barrels, or crank/cams sitting
on your shelf. I usually send out the heads for work and /or porting as
necessary. But I guess if you were doing it from scratch, it could take up
to a couple of weeks or more. I remember getting into a squable with the
crank rebuilder because of three cranks in a row that weren't 90 degree
indexed. I had journals that were as much as three or four degrees off. He
at first said, "so what, it's just a VW", but after a few heated
discussions, I convinced him that he wouldn't have said that to any of his
race driver friends or high end cars like Porche or BMW aor
Lambergini(spelling?) yes, we have a lot of those up in the Seattle area. I
finally convinced him that even though the lowly VW engine isn't in USAC or
NASCAR, it deserves just as much attention as if it were making money for an
owner of a race car. This is a four cylinder opposed engine proned to a lot
of vibration and will have a greatly reduced life if some attention to
detail is not paid. I love this engine and get real hot if people dis it
without knowing that it is one of the few engines that have had realatively
little change in over 60 years. Very few can say that !

nuff said

67 Single Cab
71 Trike
VolksAir
Ray, Kent WA
The water is boiling, the frog just doesn't know it yet


-----Original Message-----
From: Westfalia [mailto:swharris(-at-)earthlink.net]
Sent: Tuesday, February 05, 2002 11:38 AM
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Worlds longest rebuild?


Well, I'm finally settled...sort of (no shop yet)...in my new house.  The
weekend before last I finally installed my all new 1600 SP.  My first
complete build up of a motor.  Not a "rebuild", because I used almost
everything new.  New case, C/W crank (CB cast), Ronnie suggested cam of
394" X  274 dur. , sp heads (well new rebuilt anyway) semi hemi cut and
with .020 barrel spacers 6.9:1 comp., CB filter pump (beware that this DOES
NOT FIT with a stock exhaust with out modification either the exhaust or
the filter housing (they don't mention that!!).  I modified the heat riser
tube witch is no small feat, I think Eric changes the housing that intales
tig welding), stock exhaust, new 30/31, wires/plugs, vac dist. et. al.  

I had ALL rotating parts balanced seperately and then as a unit as well as
I matched all chamber volumes and offset heavy and light pistons/rod
combo's so as to keep the weight as equal as possible.  All this effort
seems to have worked as this is the smoothest engine I've ever had.  Seems
like I could cruise at 4K all day long (not tried it yet with only 300
miles on the clock). I spent a good amount of time making sure this engine
would be a dry one.  So far the only leak is at the oil filter (a small BMW
2002) so I think I just have to snug it up. :-)

So far so good.  I did cheat a bit at the end as I just plain ran out of
time durring the move and work.  After I completed the entire assembly, I
took it over to Topline performance in Anaheim and had John and the boys
check it over and run it in.  They dialed in the carb and up the main jet
to 125 I think and re set the dist. as I guess I was a bit off for that
particular dual vac. dist.  He mentioned (like Eric) about the retarted #3.
 I said OK and picked it up.  Money well spent I think.  BTW I have to say
that John is one great HONEST air cooled mechanic.  I can't tell you how
many times he's helped me out for nothing, given me small parts and just
generally given good solid advice.  The shop is a tad hard to find, but
well worth the effort if you need some help with your bus/car etc.  Of
course I'm just a customer not affiliated.

OK to the question.  From parking the DC back at the end of July (bad noise
due to over heating it...never found out why it started overheating) and
pulling the motor, to the first weekend in Feb...lets say 6 months.  What
is the longest its taken anyone to finish a motor???

See ya all this weekend at the OCTO show...if i'm lucky I'll make it to the
Toy and Lit show on Sat. morning.

Good to be back.

Steve
62 DC
65 & 67 Westys







---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
