From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 6 Feb 2002 00:21:51 EST
To: burning.girl(-at-)telus.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] bearing noise

In a message dated 2/5/02 8:52:44 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
burning.girl(-at-)telus.net writes:

<< bearings to get this noise, and secondly, is there any chance this noise
 could be coming not from the front wheel (which is where I hear it, I think)
 but from a rear reduction box?  Would the reduction box bearings make noise
 only on corners or would it be constant?  Because I pulled a couple chunks
 of bearing cage out of the right rear reduction box when I drained it.  I
 know, this is all bad, but I'm just hoping to use the bus for little errands
 and such until I get a real job and money to fix the gear boxes.  I did spin
 the rear wheels with the bus off the ground and I didn't hear any crunchy
 noises, the redux boxes seemed pretty quiet...
 
 Thanks in advance for any illuminating advice,
 Diana >>
well, you could have a friend walk along outside whil eyou drive slowly to 
identify the wheel, or jack up the bus to spin the wheels and see which 
corner it came from.

The bearing piece out of the RGB sounds really bad.  I rebuildt the tranny on 
my 61 as it started making this noise.  Unfortunately it started on the way 
to the Bugarame in California, so I put miles on it, but I drove it home and 
that was it.  An upper outer bearing had completely fried, in fact the outer 
part is still in the RGBox cover. The axle shaft was unusable (hence my 
search for bus RGB axles, 8 months to find two real nice ones).  Knew this 
girl who kept driving her 66 weeks after a bad rumbly noise started until the 
bus wouldn't go,  The RGBearings were so bad the gear ate through the RGBox, 
oil all left the tranny, lots of metal shaving, snapped the axle, engine 
went, did not push bus.  I have that outer half of the axle shaft still, with 
the gear welded to it.  Since these parts are getting harder to find, better 
rest the bus till you can deal with it.    At least make sure which wheel it 
is- can you bring it back in the shop to do the spin test?   They would make 
noise all the time, not just on corners.  hm, but you said the rear wheels 
dont crunchy- do they rumble?  if you push pull the tire at 12 an 6, or 3 and 
9, does it wiggle?  a good rgb only has a hair movement, worn bearing make a 
thunk when you do that.   better find out what the noise is.   hm- double 
check the fronts again, maybe something is loose.  Lug nuts snug?    
