Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2002 21:15:19 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Long time listener, first time caller

>From: The Johnson's <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
>Date: Fri, 09 Aug 2002 01:31:24 -0500
>
>I have become the very proud owner of a 1967 21 window that I found 
>on thesamba.  [...]  I have done brake jobs on camaro's and durango's
>and even a few suzuki's, what I need to know is how the brake procedure
>differs 

Once you get past that 46 mm nut, it'll be like doing the rear drum 
brakes on any of those cars.  If you think you'll have the Bus for
a while, I'd vote for splurging on the 46 mm socket and maybe a piece
of pipe for your breaker bar or ratchet.  The flat steel thing that
the VW parts places sell involves hammer blows which *should* just
torque the nut but I wonder about hammer blows and bearings.

You might consider replacing the wheel cylinders in both rear
wheels - you'll probably have to replace the linings anyway if
that right cylinder was leaking badly.  Since you're going to
have to bleed the brakes anyway, consider replacing all 4 rubber
flex hoses unless you know they have been recently replaced.
When I first got my '64, the braking was not confidence-inspiring
and after replacing the (apparently original) flex hoses I found
that the two front hoses were totally plugged up!

>and what in involved in replacing the front right wheel bearing.

The front wheel bearings will be pretty much like the wheel bearings
on the non-drive wheel on any other car, except for the way the
adjustment is held.  When you take off the dust cap in the center
of the wheel you will either see two thin nuts with a lock tab
between them, or one thick nut with a split in it and an Allen
screw clamping it to the spindle.  The two nuts and lock tab is
the original style for your Bus.  The clamping nut came later in
the bay-window (post '67) Buses but can easily be put on an earlier
Bus back to about (I think) '64 or late '63.

If you have the clamping nut you won't need any other parts except
new bearings and a new grease seal.  If you have the two nuts and
lock tab you'll also need a new lock tab; any VW parts store should
have them.  Measure the diameter of the nose of the wheel spindle
(or get the old lock tab off) before you go to the VW parts store;
older Bugs take a similar part but with a smaller ID that won't
fit your Bus spindle.
 
Other than that, you undo the nut(s), take the drum off, remove the 
oil seal, remove the inner races, knock the outer races out of the
drum with a hammer and a drift, clean, and inspect.  "Installation
is the reverse of removal".  :)  You do have to set the end play
correctly which is where a manual will help.
 
>I know there is no subsitute for a good manual, but I guess until I 
>get mine, I'm looking for one anyway.

The two you need now are the John Muir "Idiot" manual and the Bentley
workshop manual.  The "Idiot" manual may be in the library and will
probably be on the shelf at the local bookstore.  You'll have to
order in the Bentley manual.

>Tim in Stillwater.

Stillwater, OK?  (I'm in Tulsa.)

Matt Roberds


