Date: Sun, 11 Aug 2002 21:44:51 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Brazilian carburetors

>From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Fri, 9 Aug 2002 05:38:52 -0700 (PDT)
>
>I've got dual Brazilian Webers on a 1600 Type 2 dual port engine.
>Now they are not working properly.

Did they ever work right since you bought the Bus?  If they used
to work right, it's probably not all that likely that a jet suddenly
disintegrated.  A jet might have come loose or something but usually
a sudden change isn't the jets.

>The first thought is that I should investigate re-jetting these things.

I would find a gasket kit that matches your carbs, and tear them down
to see what's what.  You might find a bunch of crud in the carbs in
which case a good cleaning might be all they need.  I like to use the
gallon can from Berryman and soak the carb overnight.  I'm not sure
who is the best vendor for non-stock gasket kits; I know Berg sells
some Weber gasket kits and there are probably many other vendors.
While you're taking them apart, look for worn throttle shaft bushings
and things like that - a rebush at the local carb shop helped my
20 year old Solex/Bocar a lot. 
 
You can also compare the carbs for sameness left and right.  VW used 
slightly different jets for left and right carbs on some of their
dual-carb engines, so if you find one side with (say) a 115 jet and
the other with a 120 jet that's probably not too big a deal.  But if
one side is like 110 and the same jet on the other side is like 150
then a jet change may be in order.  

>They have a metal plate under one of the top screws that reads as 
>follows: Weber-228095-Lado Esquerdo-D 83.

Two wrongs don't make a right, but three rights make a left, but
two lefts do not a carb set make.  Do they both say "Lado Esquerdo"?
That's Portugese for "left side".  The other one _should_ say
something like "Lado Direito".  I don't know too much about the
intricacies of dual carb setups but it seems to me like having
two lefts would require a bunch of throttle linkage fabrication
and other non-optimal things.  I don't know what the other numbers
stand for but if "83" is a date code then they definitely need
a good cleaning and maybe a throttle shaft rebushing by now.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds


