Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 16:10:34 -0400
From: "John Baker"<jbakerccymca(-at-)springmail.com>
To: Type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com,
Subject: Dixie Bus trip report My turn

Allright Y'all,
I finally have caught up with my work today and have an opportunity to do a
trip report about Dixie Bus Gathering in detail. 
First of all, Thanks to Frank Biffath III for hosting duties.  
After arriving on Friday afternoon, had a chance to catch up with some
fellow-bussers which I'd met at Buses 'n Boats and other camp outs. Also, did
a quick timing adjustment on the Westy that afternoon, I had been having some
idling issues.  Before I left home I had cleaned out my barn and brought a
bunch of parts to sell at the Volksfest show, I needed to make $200 to buy a
parts bug to complete my '66 Bug project. Well, the good news is that I made
about $206 at the swap meet! The bad news is I am going to have to spend most
of that to buy a new carb for my bus (it kept dying at idle the whole way on
the carabus to the show, and then again on the drive home, looks like it
wasn't a timing issue after all). So, that's a drag. But anyway, after the
show Frank made his Champion Chili (made famous at Everybus 2002) and was met
once again with praises and accolades (along with a couple of smarta$$ remarks
too!).
 After dinner we performed the ritualistic drinking of the ale accompanied by
the strumming of the 6 string instruments and singing til our throats hurt,
thanks again Terry for the duo and thanks to Jeff's son Johnathan for helping
us keep the rhythm on his shoe, the ground, a guitar case, and whatever else
he could find to drum on. This rookie (me) went to bed at 3:00 am while the
die-hards (Frank, Dwayne, Steve & Casey, Terry, and a couple of others)
continued til who-knows-when.
Sunday morning saw the creation of that delicacy we all know as FMBC breakfast
burritos, delicious as usual, even with a bit of a tired headache from the
previous night's festivities.  The ride home pretty much convinced me that I
have to buy a new carb as previously stated, but no real trouble.
All in all, a very fun weekend and definitely should be done again next year.
So, I hope to see everyone at Michele's camp out in Richmond, Indiana
September 20-22! (Hey Michele, maybe you could post the details of this event
to the type2 and vintagebus lists) I have just one more question before I go:
"WHO BUILT THAT FIRE?!?!?"

Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1966 Kombi
1985 Cabrio
http://www.geocities.com/jbakerccymca
"...so we got in the red VW microbus with the shovels and rakes and implements of destruction and
headed on to the police officer's station..."
