Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 21:24:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: Taylor Nelson <taylorvw(-at-)redshift.com>
Subject: POR-15 Advice symposium


Taylor,

When using POR15, be careful not to get any on you, as it will remain on
you for at least a week's worth of washing. Forget getting it out of
clothing. Use Nitrile gloves, NOT the latex ones they might send you.
Latex is permiable, Nitrile gloves are chemical-resistant.  Fast Acrylic
Laquer Thinner works fine on cleanup, but don't inhale or contact that
either. If you wish to spray the POR, thin it
preferably with its own thinner, or with the laquer thinner, about 2 parts
POR to 1 part thinner. Clean up your spray gear every half hour minimum.
And use a respirator with chemical filters, something over your hair, and
goggles, if spraying. NO joking.

When the POR gets tacky (about the 2 hour point), feather coat your system
primer onto it. Build it up over several sprayings, very lightly, until
the POR is mostly covered, letting each light spraying dry for a minute.

The POR takes four hours to cure, and 24 hours to be fully hardened. It
adheres to roughed-up and degreased surfaces best. It peels easily from
bare metal that had ANY residue on it at all. It dries rock hard, and
non-porous. I used it everywhere on my 67 resto.

As Thom mentioned, don't sand thru original paint unless absolutely
necessary - minimize your need for the POR15.

Oh yeah, pure the amount you will need out of the can, and seal the can up
immediately! Use clear wrap between the can and cover to seal it and
prevent the top from sticking to the can! Once you open a can of POR, it
will not last long, even resealed. I made one gallon can last several
months by very careful useage and sealing, but have lost others in days.

Well, that's my POR15 info-rant.

good luck!
cal


On Sat, 10 Aug 2002, Taylor Nelson wrote:

> Hey all,
>
> I've got some POR-15 on its way to me.  I have some rust up along my
> gutters that I want to attack before fall and winter set in.  My plans are
> to clean the area, grind it all down to metal, then apply the POR-15 to the
> specific areas.  The whole roof doesn't need it, so I'm planning to lay
> down some primer over it...should I grind the whole roof down to bare metal
> before primering...or can I primer over the old paint and the POR-15'd
> parts, too?


