Date: Mon, 12 Aug 2002 23:31:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: POR-15 Advice symposium Part 2


On Mon, 12 Aug 2002, Heath, Raymond E wrote:

> I have some treasure chest rust out holes to repair. On the new metal, do I
> need to primer first, or just apply the POR-15? Also, should I do inside as
> well as outside the box, or just primer and paint the inside normally?

When we did the resto on the 67, I had lots of different situations come
up, with different conditions, to see how effectively the POR would adhere
to various situations and materials. My observations were that the bared
metal HAD to be roughed up properly (sand, wire-brush,etc), and
immaculately clean. Plus, there seemed to be a requirement for the 'Grace
of the Restoration gods' to be present as well. What I mean, is that,
under apparently identical conditions, the POR would or would not adhere
well, occasionally peeling off when cured. It got to be that I could tell
fairly intuitively beforehand whether or not the stuff would stick. If I
had any doubt, then I applied the system primer first, which always seemed
to be consistent in its adhesion to the metal. After it was dry, then I'd
apply POR, wait the two hours, and apply the NECESSARY feather-coat of
system primer over the tacky POR. I applied this 'feather' coat in four or
five very light sprayings, until the black POR was almost invisible
underneath, then let the whole affair dry overnight. If you don't apply
your primer to the POR while it's tacky, then nothing will stick to the
POR when it's cured.

Anyway, so there were times that I laid down primer first onto the metal,
then the POR layer to water-proof the work. I did that around all the
window openings, sandwiching a layer of POR between first layer of primer,
and the second interface-layer of primer that i described above. Then the
top coat would be sprayed. If you do the sandwiching technique, do NOT
sand down thru the POR layer when sanding your pre-topcoat work.

Finally, to answer your question, you may need to experiment on small
areas to see how the POR sticks - is it possible to scrape it off the next
day...? Etc,... in order to determine whether or not to primer first or
POR first. That's the best I can tell you. I ended up POR-ing the entire
underside, mostly to the bared cleaned metal, with good success, although
occasionally having to re-do some areas by re-baring, then priming and
then POR-ing. In exposed body areas, I generally tended to primer first,
then spray the waterproofing POR layer, then the feather coat of primer,
because I didn't want the exposed areas to ever peel off, and rust, just
because the POR didn't feel like sticking that day.

Incidentally, the wheel wells were bared and sprayed with that
professional 3M white gritty wheel well coating first, then POR-ed, as I
wanted guaranteed adhesion and protection in the wheel wells, and it was
clear to me that the 3M product could stick to butter! THe POR adhered
excellently to the 3M product, giving me the best of both products - the
rock-resistant super-adhesion 3M stuff, and the waterproofing of the POR.

cal


