From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2002 16:03:39 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] Sway Bars and Disk Brake Kits

Well... Since you asked :)

I assume you have albatross adjusters in that front beam to lower it?  Call
Old Speed and they can make a 944 front disc kit for the early (drum) bay
beam.  Sounds like you already have a beefy sway bar up front which is good,
but the rear is usually what slows me down in turns over the front though.

The rear.. oh the rear..  Thomas Ainley is working on a rear 944 kit as we
speak with the big nut RGBs.  Personally I will take mine with a small nut
RGB since it goes on like a Beetle conversion... More updates to come this
weekend once I pick up an early rear end to play with.  You will need to
play with the tranny gears to actually cruise on the interstate.

Also the rear might be able to use a 944 rear sway bar (rumor) which would
be cool.  The camber compensator can be used with this as well.

Bilstein does make shocks to fit the splits, I think the HD green units.
Currently I think www.shox.com has the lowest prices.  No bus specific parts
house has a good deal on them, I imagine volume related.  The KYBs are going
to be turds compared to any Bilstein in the long run.

As part of these conversions you end up with Porsche lug bolt pattern.  Some
people like this and some hate it.  So no stock bus wheels.  The closest you
can come is to use Porsche steel rims (spare tire units) in a 15"x5.5" which
looks really mean if done right.

Dave at Creative Engineering is trying to come up with a rear disc setup for
the baywindows which could probably work on the big nut RGBs, but that is
yet to be released... Bug him about it, really.  

Disc brakes kick butt over the drums... But it is not easy or cheap.  Now
once it is converted it will be easier to maintain in the longrun, but the
initial outlay is pretty hefty.  

... Once you do all these changes then you will want a bigger engine.  So
just keep that wallet open :(   


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 



 



