From: "Thomas Ainlay" <tainlay(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
Date: Tue, 13 Aug 2002 19:44:03 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] More on Sway Bars and Disc Brake Kits

Ronnie,

Sounds cool and I have a couple of questions for you.  What is the max rim
width you are able to run with this setup.  Can you quantify the cost of
fabricating the mount for those who don't have a machine shop at their
disposal?  Any mods to the RGB covers?  Is the Mercedes rotor vented?

As Adrian mentioned I'm currently working on adapting the early Porsche 944
vented rear brakes to my single cab with big nut RGBs.  This is for personal
use and not really a kit per se, after all there is a lot of liability ($$$)
when it comes to selling brake kits.  For informational purposes I'll be
using modified Bay hubs with the rest of the components being all early
Porsche 944, including the e-brake components.

At this stage I can mount up everything and still get 6" Porsche cookie
cutter wheels under the skirts but need to work out the e-brake cable mods
to mate with the 944 components.  I will also be using the 944 master
cylinder which should hopefully mount right up to the Wolfgang MC adapter I
am currently using.  This way I'll have 944 brakes all the way around (Old
Speed fronts already installed) and the MC will be designed to work with
them.  I did have to modify a set of RGB covers to get clearance for the
e-brake cable area of the caliper bracket but could go back to stock with a
spacer for that area if desired.  The Porsche parts aren't cheap but you can
source a lot of them from the junkyard along with the  Bay hubs.  The 944
calipers are really easy to rebuild too.  The big money with this route is
the machine work necessary to modify the Bay hubs, adapt the caliper
brackets and RGB covers.  Also I could have used wheel adapters and retained
the stock rims but decided to go with Porsche rims instead.

Regards,

Thomas Ainlay (not Ainley)

-----Original Message-----
From: OldVolks General
Subject: RE: [VB] More on Sway Bars and Disc Brake Kits

I have made a couple of sets of rear disc for large nut axles useing a
late bay hub, chevy K chassis rear calipers with e-brake, Mercedes 600
rotors and Woods 5 to 5 chromolly adapters to get the wide 5 pattern. easy
and cheap to do. Hubs (easy find at junk yard), new ate rotors 75 dollars a
pair, K car calipers (loaded) 45 a pair rebuilt, adapter plate 80 dollars
for 2 from Woods Wheels, mounting brackets for calipers made here in the
shop. Total Cost around 250 dollars plus time to fabricate and mount.


