From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Mar 2010 20:23:47 -0600
Subject: Living in my bus ..... 1st update

OK, a report to this list it is, though I can't do photos.  Maybe I will get
a blog going.

Someone asked how I can afford to do this so I'll answer.  I'm 69, retired
and on Social Security.  The biggest expense so far has been gas .... 1900
miles at 21 mpg at a cost of just under $3 a gallon for 89 octane Plus comes
to about $250.

Camping fees have been minor.  $18 at Falling Waters park in Florida, free
at the Louisiana state welcome center just inside Louisiana; $23 at Steven
Austin State Park in Texas, two nights. Free at the municipal park in
Junction, Tx. (really beautiful park on the banks of the Llanos River; the
city lets you camp there for two nights at no charge).  $22 at a very
comfortable KOA in Van Horne, Texas.

I left Van Horne Tuesday day with the last elements of rain still falling,
and made it to the New Mexico border about 1:15 p.m. just as the weather was
clearing and the sun coming out.  I had planned to continue west on I-10 to
Deming, but something caused me to head north instead on I-25.  After about
two hours I arrived at Caballos Lake state park.  New Mexico has 32 state
parks very nice indeed.

New Mexico also has something else.  A one-year camping permit for $225 for
out of state folks like myself.  In three weeks it will pay for itself.  So
again, the cost of living just went down.

So far there have been no mechanical problems.  HappyBus has run smoothly.
I plan to check timing and valves in the near future. I added a 1/2 qt of
oil at 1500 miles (Castrol 20-50).  I had changed the oil just before
leaving.

Cooking and eating has been fun, and sleeping as well.  The bus does have
some amenities:An eberspacher BN-4 heater wired to a thermostat so  can keep
a constant temperature at night, a 65-watt solar panel snugged down in the
luggage rack, a porta-potty that is really useful at night, and 16 qt Engel
fridge that works on both 12 & 120 volt and draws very little amperage.
Also, a Berkey water filter for fresh tasting water.

Tonight, for example, I made a pot of rice, heated up some Hormel Dinty
Moore beef stew to pour over it, some broccoli, an avocado, cottage cheese
.... and watched the sun go down behind a mountain.

One small piece of annoyance.  I have had the bus nine years.  When I first
got it I installed a new pump faucet.  It always leaked.  So after nine
years I decided to bite the bullet and by a new one and toss the old.  The
new one leaks, too.

But that is a small item indeed.

OK, time to close up shop, breathe the fresh desert air, maybe pop a DVD in
the telly and chill.

I regret that I haven't said much about the people I have met along the way.
They are a big, big and happy part of the trip.

I will try to do better and make this more interesting in the future.

Busing .... not a bad way to live.

Cheers,

John
