Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2010 15:11:01 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] compression

>90psi is a little low

	Being as how it's Friday, let me copy to youse the lyric of a 
song I sang (to the ultimate annoyance of my two companions) as I 
drove my '57 Splittie from Vancouver B.C. to Berkeley in the Fall of 
'64.



	Dave Dudley's Greatest (?only) Hit

Well, I pulled out o' Pittsburgh,
Rollin' down that Eastern Seaboard.
I've got my diesel wound up
And she's running like never before.
There's a speed zone ahead, but 's alright,
I don't see a cop in sight.
Six days on the road and I'm gonna make it home tonight.

I got ten forward gears
And a Georgia overdrive.
I'm taking little white pills
And my eyes are open wide.
I just passed a 'Jimmy' and a White:
I've been passin' everythang in sight.
Six days on the road and I'm gonna make it home tonight.

	(instrumental verse)

Well, it seems like a month
Since I kissed my baby good-bye.
I could have a lot of women,
But I'm not like some other guys.
I could find one to hold me tight,
But I could never believe that it's right.
Six days on the road and I'm gonna make it home tonight.

I.C.C. is checking on down the line.
I'm a little overweight and my logbook's way behind.
But nothing bothers me tonight.
I can dodge all the scales alright,
Six days on the road and I'm gonna make it home tonight.

	(instrumental verse)

Well my rig's a little old,
But that don't mean she's slow.
There's a flame from her stack,
And the smoke's a-blowin' black as coal.
My hometown's coming in sight,
If you think I'm happy you're right.
Six days on the road and I'm gonna make it home tonight.
Six days on the road and I'm gonna make it home tonight.
Six days on the road and I'm gonna make it home tonight.

========

	The gear mentioned, neutral downhill, is still a firm 
favourite of mine  -  called in this country Maori overdrive, in the 
SW of the USA Mexican overdrive, on the E. coast USA J*wish 
overdrive, etc.  But what is supposed to be parsimonious about 
Georgia USA?

-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
