Date: Thu, 18 Mar 2010 19:37:07 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] compression

On 3/18/2010 6:32 PM, Robt Mann wrote:
> If I recall, Mike is (to put it mildly) a FI enthusiast. I take it his
> results, summarised above, are from FI engines (probably MegaSquirt).

Yes, that's true.  But I've also done tests on carb'd engines as well 
(same size engine, same compression ratio - similar results)

> Don't FI engines let in more air than carb'd engines, at low power, and
> regulate the power by injecting less fuel?

The concepts are nearly identical, it's just how the fuel is metered. 
In a carb, the flow is injected mechanically according to load.  With 
EFI, the fuel flow is injected electronically according to load.  They 
both have a throttle valve that regulates airflow into the engine.

Carb or EFI, it's still a naturally aspirated engine trying to suck air 
in - and it's all how well the engine can breath.  Regardless, if my EFI 
engine can breath better or worse than a carb'd engine, it still doesn't 
matter much.  If the numbers are reasonable, then go about your day. 
There's really nothing you can gather from a difference between 130 and 
140 other than maybe that cylinder's getting old, and it's really the 
data gained from multiple tests over time that helps (watching a 
cylinder get lower and lower over time).  If you hold the throttle open, 
maybe you'll get an extra 5PSI?  Still doesn't tell you anything 
meaningful other than your engine breaths better when the throttle valve 
is open (a given).  Also, taking out your other plugs might yield 
slightly higher numbers, but that still doesn't tell you anything useful.

> I think it's best to promulgate the simple rule 'throttle open while
> measuring compressions', as it is certainly needed (among other
> conditions) for correct readings on carb'd engines, to make sure they

That's the thing, what are those correct readings?  Carb or EFI, if it's 
down under 100, you've got way bigger problems and holding that throttle 
valve open isn't going to help.  Sure you can do it, but my only reason 
for mentioning this is so that people understand why they're doing the 
test, and to pay attention to the important details and not get hung up 
on the little stuff (as I did back in the day).

Mike
