Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2010 04:00:11 +0100
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Uncle Gerbelmann Update

Hi Volks!

Friday ... time to ramble, if I may.

Some of you may remember "Uncle Gerbelmann", my '72 panel van.
http://gerbelmann.de/gerbelmann.en.html shows it in its former
glory.  Former?  Yes -- this story is a sad one in more than
one respect, but it does have a somewhat hopeful ending.

2008 (dubbed "bl**dy '08" for more reasons than I care to
mention here) saw this van's sudden degradation from prized
classic to heap of near junk, all thanks to one Passat driver
who chose the wrong moment to drive into an intersection without
looking both ways.  From his left came, you guessed it, Uncle
Gerbelmann.  I tried to swerve, so instead of driving into his
driver's door (which would've done him right, in retrospect),
I merely removed all the sheet metal from the front of his 
relatively young car, crumpling the entire right side of mine
in the process.  I then proceeded to slide diagonally across
the entire intersection and managed to hit a tree which lived
(and still lives) there, rather inconveniently placed for that
situation.  The impact with the left side of the front bumper
was still enough to turn my van around by almost 180 degrees,
so that it came to rest neatly out of further harm's way, halfway
on the sidewalk and bike path respectively.

I wasn't hurt much, bit of a headache, nothing really -- I've
been worse just from imbibing certain toxic (yet legal) 
liquid substances.  The van did not fare so well, although 
admittedly, from the nature of the impacts and the way they
felt, I was very surprised that it looked no worse than it did.
Front wall, right dogleg, right door, right rear wheel arc, and
both bumpers are toast; sliding door might be salvageable,
left door is undamaged.  Mechanically, the shifter is damaged,
and allegedly engine and tranny have come forward too a little;
however, the van moved onto the wrecker on its own power, so
I'm quite optimistic in that respect.

So far, so bad.

Due to certain financial troubles which I am not going to explore
here, but which were further parts of the reason for nicknaming
that year the way I did, repairing the van was not an option
at the time.  The (measly) amount the Passat driver's insurance
company eventually paid was already spent on more pressing matters
by the time it finally arrived.  So into storage it went, and
when that storage solution disintegrated by the end of the year,
since the financial situation had not become any better, it was
time to sell it.

Luckily, the guy I sold it to was a good friend of mine, who agreed
to a) repair it to original condition, and b) should he ever decide
to sell it again, to offer it to me first.  So off it went, which
was not easy for me, but I vowed it would not have left my life
for good.  Which it hadn't, but in a much, much worse way than
I'd've thought.  But I'm getting ahead of myself here.

My friend had no less financial problems than I had, evidently.
His first payment for the van didn't arrive until almost a year
after we'd made the deal.  Now, that wasn't such a big deal for
me, however I thought of using it as a premise to get the van
back, having regretted the sale ever since it had happened.
But oh well, too late.  Or so I thought. 

All of this changed on Saturday two weeks ago, when my friend and
a pal of his died from an unfortunate combination of Opel Corsa
(theirs), curvy road, icy tarmac, and oncoming Opel Meriva.

So.  There never was a written sales document (we hadn't got around
to writing one up yet), the van's documents are still with me,
and the van wasn't fully paid for.  His father, who inherited all
his stuff (and that's a LOT of stuff), will be glad for every one
of the dozens of Buses and other vehicles he need not take care
of getting rid of himself.  So, as of two weeks ago, I'm a VW Bus
owner again.

Hooray.

Sigh.  Okay.  Time to find me some storage space, it seems.
And then find me someone with an alignment bank (?) and the
data to put it to good use on a T2.  Yes, I admit it, it'll 
be good to have the van back, but boy, if I had the choice,
I'd gladly have it crushed if that could bring my friend back.
Bullsh!t, I know, but that's the way it feels.

I just needed to share this.  Thanks for reading.

Airhowlingly yours,
   Ermel.
-- 
"Software is like sex ... it's better when it's free." 
        -- Linus Torvalds
