Date: Thu, 4 Nov 2004 16:47:43 -0800
From: john kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Synthetic Oil: done to death?

Several years ago I decided synthetics were superior due to less
friction yielding cooler running temps and stronger films meaning less
likely to allow metal to metal contact under stress.

One of our local club members has worked in some of the local FLAPS
systems and spent some time explaining to me that oil is basically oil
+ additive package. But I really didn't appreciate what that exactly
meant until Chris posted the following in October:

http://volkswagen.msk.ru/vw_doc/the_motor_oil_bible

I don't think anybody responed to Chris' post at the time. I myself
got so caught up in reading it that I didn't get back and say, "Thanks
Chris", so now I'll say it: "Thanks, Chris", ;-)

Anyway, after reading this and seeing the facts behind the
conventional wisdom we pick up from each other verbally,  I was truly
impressed with how important it is to run synthetic, so I am repenting
of my evil ways I have been guilty of in putting regular oil into my
VW's lately, even though it has been higher quality Valvoline VR-1
racing oil.

You will want to read some of the precautions such as increasing oil
leaks in older seals.

John



On Thu, 04 Nov 2004 15:59:05 -0800, Rocket J Squirrel
<j.michael.elliott(-at-)adelphia.net> wrote:
 This has been done to death, I am sure. Please point me to the
 Collective Wisdom.
 
 The question is, do we like or not like synthetic motor oil in our
 aircooled upright engines? Gets pretty hot in SoCal pushing a
 Transporter down the Interstate and my oil sump temps are pushing 230F
 -- where dino oil is ready to exhibit thermal breakdown. Synth oil is
 reputed to stand off higher temps -- yes/no?
 
 Oh -- for some odd reason, I can post NEW threads to the type2 list, but
 my REPLIES to existing threads are not getting posted.
 
 --
 Mike "Rocket J Squirrel" Elliott
 71 Type 2: the Wonderbus
 84 Westphalia: "Mellow Yellow (The Electrical Banana)"
 KG6RCR
 -=-=-
 When everything's coming your way, you're in the wrong lane.
 ------------------------------------
