To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 5 Nov 2004 13:11:08 -0500
Subject: Official AIRS Update... Take 2

Hi Volks,

I've been appointed to take the reins of the AIRS page, and transform 
back it into something useful. Without a method in place to ensure that 
we have UP-TO-DATE information in the database, the information we do 
have is becoming less useful with every passing day. We really don't 
want to see that happen.... Anecdotal evidence suggests that the data 
for some states is now quite inaccurate, and the address for the

I have no problems taking over as AIRS administrator, and the owner of 
the type2.com domain has asked me to stick-handle the project. Our 
thoughts are that we need to carefully build a new procedure and 
website that take advantage of modern web tools to come up with a 
system that can cope with the migratory patterns of todays bus owner. 
We need a database with an interface that is simple to update, easy to 
search by state or zip, easy to update, safe from spammers trolling for 
email addresses, and easy to update. Database entries will be kept 
online for 12 months, after which an email request will be generated to 
confirm the validity of the information that was supplied. If they 
respond, we keep them in. If they don't reply within a week they get 
purged.

I can't do this on my own. Anyone who has visited www.pottsfamily.ca 
can easily tell I know very little about modern html. If it can't be 
coded in netscape communicator, I'm not the guy. But do I know there is 
a great talent pool on this list, as we had plenty of evidence of this 
the last time this thread went around. And then the interest promptly 
died out. I brought the topic up once again during conversations at 
John Brown's Buses and so here we go again. But this time I'm not 
taking prisoners.

WANTED: Volunteers to assist rebuilding the AIRS site.

1. A capable web designer to code the database front end and back end. 
It needs to be as accessible as possible and run on ANY platform with a 
web browser. Graphics MUST be kept to a minimum. I would like to keep 
the map interface because it is useful for trip planning, but there 
must be a text search option as well.  I want a designer/programmer who 
can impress us with an interface that works without java or flash 
animations, because we need something that can still work for someone 
stranded in the boonies using an acoustic coupler on a Pentium 1 
system.

2. State-by-state auditors willing to verify the info we have already 
for their state. Then we can feed this valuable data into the new 
database. If you're able to lend a hand phoning or emailing, please let 
me know. I'll put your name on file and get back to you as soon as we 
are ready to start polling the database.

If you're interested in putting your time and skills to work to 
contribute to the type2 community and keep travellers safe, this is 
your chance. Reply off-list and I'll get back to you. I'll be setting 
up a small AIRS mailing-list  to communicate with those interested in 
helping with the project.


Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
