Date: Fri, 05 Nov 2004 14:44:08 -0800
From: Rocket J Squirrel <j.michael.elliott(-at-)adelphia.net>
To: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Synthetic Oil: done to death?

VWBrain(-at-)aol.com wrote:

> Hello Mike    It is my understanding that you need a full flow oil 
> filter to be able to use syn oil.  Otherwise it isnt cost effective 
> .   later and have fun  Mark dearing

(I poked a lot through the archives before posting this):

Hi Mark,

I'm not worried about cost effectiveness of the oil for my beloved but 
cantankerous Wonderbus.  I have a thermal probe at the end of the 
Wonderbus's dipstick (Mexi 1600 DP). With air preheating stove piped up 
to the stock oil bath air cleaner, SVDA dizzie set to 42 degrees advance 
(-at-) 3700 rpm, and blowing down Interstates 5 and 805 from San Diego's 
North County to darn near the Mexican border, over considerable hill and 
dale, I have found that if I keep the ground speed at 55mph (a speed 
that consternates the local drivers with its snail-like progress) the 
temp in the sump peaks at 230F on the grades and hovers around 220F on 
the average. This with air temps in the mid 70's.

If it were 10, 20 or 30 degrees warmer, then dino oil in the engine 
would be suffering from thermal breakdown.

 From http://www.firstfives.org/faq/oil/oilartcl.html :

"Petroleum base stock molecules are long carbon chains that are 
sensitive to stress and heat. . . high engine temperatures and heavy 
loads  . . .  cause these chains to break down and the base stock 
actually boils off causing a change of viscosity and the formulation of 
sludge. This can happen at temperatures as low as 230: F and by 250: F 
many petroleum oils are suffering significant breakdown."

This is just in the engine oil sump.  Ron Van Ness recorded head temps 
as high as 350F

( http://www.type2.com/rvanness/1600saga.htm#9 ).

He added a second oil cooler which brought down sump temp by 20F. This 
had no effect on head temps -- these are air-cooled, not oil-cooled 
engines -- but lowering overall oil temp gets it further away from that 
230F  thermal breakdown temp. If the oil starts degrading, it becomes 
less lubricating, which increases friction and heating, and reduces 
overall engine life.

Using oils with a higher thermal breakdown temp would add a margin of 
safety when pushing a bus on a hot freeway which in itself would be a 
cost-effective measure.

Synthetics claim to have a higher breakdown temp than dino oils. The 
first article quoted says, "Synthetics can withstand temperatures of 
300:F all day long and still protect your engine. In fact the American 
Society of Testing Materials (ASTM) standard wear resistance tests are 
conducted at 302: F. In this test synthetic lubricants far out perform 
petroleum lubricants by factor of four to one and greater."

Closed case? I dunno -- I can't find any information about is how 
petroleum oil fares against synthetics at the elevated temps in the 
heads, especially where they are the hottest: at the exhaust valves. 
Does one degrade more gracefully than the other? This I could not find 
poking through the archives.

Bob Hoover seems to share Mark Dearing's opinion that synthetics are not 
cost-effective. He writes,  "Synthetic lubricants are more durable 
because their beads are smoother, in the chemical sense.  They do not 
combine with the products of combustion as readily as do natural 
lubricants.  This greater durability is of no benefit in early 
Volkswagens because the crankcase is open to the atmosphere, forcing us 
to change our oil every couple of thousand miles just to get rid of the 
contaminants sucked into the sump."

Which is a fair position to take -- as long as the less-expensive 
petroleum oil is kept below its thermal breakdown point.  Once it starts 
breaking down, that synthetic might start looking cost-effective in the 
long run. Me, I would plan on changing my oil as frequently as I do with 
petroleum oil because I recognize that the unfiltered Type 1 engine 
cannot take advantage of the longer life of synthetics.

I personally reckon that anything that raises the oil's thermal 
breakdown threshold is a good thing, since I do live in a pretty warm 
part of the contiguous United States.  The Wonderbus's 1600 DP engine 
seems to be a good candidate: it now has about 5,000 miles on it, so 
bearings and guides and rings and things are seated well enough so that 
a slipperier oil can be used (which should lower operating temps 
somewhat), and it hasn't had enough time to build up much sludge to 
break loose. I'm due for a change and valve adjustment in a couple thou, 
so I think I'm going to gurgle synthetic down its throat.

--
Mike "Rocket J Squirrel" Elliott
71 Type 2: the Wonderbus
84 Westphalia: "Mellow Yellow (The Electrical Banana)"
KG6RCR
