Date: Fri, 05 Nov 2004 17:53:16 -0500
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)mail.buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Pulling a Vintage RV with a Bus 

 >"Doyt mentions frontal area as a concern. I don't believe that is really
 >the biggest issue. Your bus has *most* of that FA covered (engi9ne has
 >to push the FA of the bus anyhow) and airflow over the bus will divert
 >over the trailer, meaning that you might add 20% (just a guess) to the
 >rig's FA."  The Fader at <toobwiz(-at-)knology.net>

I heartily agree that braking is the biggest problem for this intended 
application, especially with regard to stopping distance. An emergency 
stop  with a 3000 pound rear load on a pivot point coupler could jack knife 
the rig pretty easily....the bus would probably lock up the brakes and 
start skidding, and the load would push the rear end off to one side if 
everything weren't perfectly lined up during every second of the stopping 
interval. AND it would take a long time to get stopped in any event and 
even skidding sideways..  Who thinks about things like that when the kid 
runs out after his ball, or a car in front runs a stop sign, or a deer 
decides to cross the road?  Add in some wet leaves, an oil slick, a patch 
of gravel, or some uneven pavement, but park it for sure if it is raining 
or the road is wet.

I don't think people are taking into consideration just how big this 
Airstream is. It is a big comfortable house on wheels.

With regard to the frontal area drag.....the front of the Airstream Bambi 
trailer (see Airstream web site) measures 72 square feet (trailer 9.5 feet 
high including roof air conditioner, and the body is 8 feet wide) whereas 
the bus front measures about 32 square feet (6ft high, 5 ft 5 inches wide). 
Your point about the bus pushing open the way for the trailer is valid, but 
not for the entire frontal area of the trailer, because it is more than 
twice that of the bus. I think I'm being generous to concede all 32 of the 
72 square feet, but that still leaves 40 extra square feet of frontal area 
for the little old engine to deal with. That is about twice what it is 
dealing with solo. And, even a 40 square foot sail in a 40mph gale is going 
to risk breaking the mast and overturning the hull of a small sail boat. It 
is a HUGE amount of force.

As air speed increases, the push doesn't just double with twice the speed. 
It behaves more like a square law. At around 40 miles an hour, air starts 
acting more and  more like a liquid than a gas. As the vehicle approaches 
50 mph, the air is pretty nasty, and at 60 it is very nasty. The air 
resistance is a really big factor at 70 miles an hour, and most solo cars 
are in serious trouble mainly due to air resistance over 100 mph. Try 
standing up in a 100 mph wind.....man, that is some kind of hurricane. I 
stop sailing when it gets over 20 mph, because I snapped a mast at 25 once. 
Lots of fun though. I stood up in the boat and let the wind push against my 
back, and it got me to the shore. Stay on topic here. Maybe this is a 
Friday topic?

Interesting discussion to me.   Doyt Echelberger
