Date: Mon, 27 Jan 2003 16:31:05 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <apillow(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: RE: [VB] Wasserboxer conversion versus aftermarket type 1 

On Mon, 27 Jan 2003, Adrian Pillow wrote:

> I have tried to figure how to bore the heads to fit the larger T5 studs and
> I just do not see a feasable way to do it.  It is possible but cheaper and
> cleaner to just get the stud holes in the case machined out for like $200
> (fair deal for the work in my opinion).  The only option might be to get
> some Super Elliminator heads from CB and then bore your own stud holes, but
> that is not really for a street machine bus.

I've looked at a set of stock heads and it doesn't seem to be all that
difficult to move the studs away from the cylinder bores.  I don't have
dimensions, but it seems as if the studs have to move about 5mm outboard
(judging from pictures here, so I might be off).  You'd have to make a set
of offset washers to replace the stock thick washers, but this would be a
lot easier than making offset threaded inserts!

Another idea is that of making offset studs with a slight "S-Curve"
in them.  The offset isn't all that great and the studs are long so this
route might actually be superior to the machining options.

> ...Now enters the T5.  The T5 is very similar to
> a T1 in setup and parts so most things are a push as far as costs go.  The
> real difference between a T1 and T5 is the stroker question.  If you just
> want a 69mm crank stick with the T1, but if you intend to stroke it out the
> T5 is a cheaper solution (depending if you get raped on a core 2.1 WBX, but
> estimate 100-250 is fair).  Also with the T5 76.4mm crank it is factory
> grade stuff, so quality is really good.

Another consideration that has to be addressed is cooling.  The type 1
cooling system was designed with 1600cc and 60HP in mind.  If we start
building the engine up to 2100cc and 100hp we have to figure out how to
get rid of that additional heat or simply be careful not to use the extra
power continuously.  This is easy to do in a bug, but a bus driver has a
great temptation to use that 100HP to climb hills which could lead to
disaster unless something is done to improve cooling of the heads.

Another thing I really like about the "T5" is the cast-in oil filter boss.
Unfortunately, you do have to plumb in an oil cooler for aircooled
applications which sort of negates this feature.  However, a "sandwich"
adapter makes plumbing the oil cooler somewhat easier.

George Lyle
