Date: Mon, 27 Jan 2003 17:44:37 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Adrian Pillow <apillow(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: RE: [VB] Wasserboxer conversion versus aftermarket type 1

On Mon, 27 Jan 2003, Adrian Pillow wrote:

> First I plan on using 10mm to 8mm regular case savers so that elliminates a
> little room right there.  The standard head studs are like the T4 when it is
> 10mm mounting threads but a stepped down 8mm shaft.  Then drill out the
> heads for the stud holes.  I bought a fresh set of drill press bits this
> weekend to try out on a junk head :)  The toughest part might be spot facing
> the head stud hole "lips" so the washer fits flush.


How about this approach:

Don't change the spot face.  Redrill the holes offset away from the
cylinder bore.

Make a set of thick washers with offset holes so that the washer can sit
in the stock spot-face with the stud through the offset hole.

Instead of hex nuts, get or make special small diameter tubular nuts with
an allen wrench recess so that the nuts will clear the side of the stock
spot face.

An alternative to the special nuts would be to make the offset washers
thick enough to fill the spotface recesses.

> I believe the cylinders
> themselves will slide right on the 8mm studs will no problem, but need to
> verify.  The cyliders would be easy to trim out anyway.
>
> As for the "S curve" part, yes they can flex a little but at the same time
> do not want to snap them under load.  Not sure of the long term effects
> here.

The danger is in getting sideways bending stresses in the threads  That
would lead to fatigue failure.

With the alumium case you might be able to go to larger diameter studs for
greater fatigue strength without risking pull-out.  What does the type
IV engine use?

> As for the oil cooling.  A big issue for sure when adding displacement.  I
> plan on running a sandwitch adapter off the oil filter boss with a built in
> thermostat so it only opens for the Doghouse oil cooler when needed.  Then
> still tap and full flow the case and run an RX-7 mondo oil cooler

Why not just run your thermostat to your external cooler, since you're
going to the trouble to add one.  Leave the doghouse cooler out and send
the air that normally goes out the doghouse to the heads!

> Again there is a whole forum for WBX and Oxy-Boxer on www.shoptalkforums.com
> that can help as well.  Granted there are very few T5 conversions out there
> to bounce ideas against.

Well, that is how advances get made.  My thought is that the people making
the initial conversions are probably machinists and did stud-insert
relocating more because they could than because it was really required

George
