From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Apr 2002 18:10:19 -0400
Subject: alternator replacement & pulley

Hi all,
I am contemplating my upcoming alternator replacement in my '79 Westy.  I
have replaced an alternator on a '78 before so I know the deal, but my issue
is that the rebuilt alternator I got from Bus Depot does not have the pulley
installed, so I will have to transfer my existing pulley over to the new
alternator.

I have heard that these can be a bear to get off without an impact wrench.
I guess if worse comes to worst I can take it somewhere and have them zap it
off and zap the new one on, but I'm wondering if anyone has any "home
remedies" for this one.

I am thinking if I have a helper who can use the alternator belt as a strap
wrench to hold the pulley still while I work on the pulley nut, that might
do it.  I don't know what kind of torque to expect to have to exert to get
that thing on and off though.

I'd kind of like to avoid the interesting but damaging solutions such as
putting a wrench on the nut while the alternator is still installed, then
using the starter to crank the engine over and loosen the nut (and/or burn
out the starter/smoke the alternator belt) ;-)
Besides, that only works for the removing part, not the installing part :-)

So any ideas will be appreciated.  Last time I did this I had a local
rebuilder do the alternator rebuild, so the pulley wasn't an issue.

BTW, during EveryBus I installed a new Bosch starter which I got from Bus
Depot.  That thing kicks butt.  It spins the engine very quickly, and as a
result the engine starts quite a bit faster than it did with my old worn out
starter.  Also got rid of the "starter lag" I would occasionally have with
the old starter on a hot engine, where it was like Rrr Rrr R<silence, no
cranking> Rrr Rrr.

Only thing about the new starter is that it only has 1 push-on terminal on
the solenoid so for us FI types that means installing a piggyback connector
to hook both wires (wire from ignition switch and wire to double relay) up
to the solenoid.  The new Bosch starter is made in Mexico and from what I
can tell so far, that's not a problem.  We shall see how it lasts.

Thanks,

Sean Bartnik
San Mateo, CA

