From: "Britt Grannis" <hillcountry(-at-)caltel.com>
To: "Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>,
Date: Sun, 28 Apr 2002 00:11:17 -0700
Subject: Roadcow to EB Part 2 Trip Report

Well I'd just laid down to sleep with the snow coming down very hard and I
guess it was about 5 am. I put up the Velcro curtains and was very happy
that the Toyota engine in Roadcow made the rear cushions on the bed nice and
toasty since I was freezing! It felt like I'd just went to sleep when I
heard this infernal ringing and realized it was my new cell phone. I'd
checked before laying down and didn't think that I had any reception but was
wrong. It was Keith petite a Buskatier friend who I was meeting in junction
city, Kansas to caravan back to EB with. Keith couldn't hear me until I
opened the door ( no easy feat since it was frozen shut!) and stood in the
door frame and held the phone as high as I could. I only lasted doing this
for about 2 minutes as it must have been about 20 degrees with the wind
howling past and my ears and feet were getting cold. It was 7 am and the
roads still looked scary but I decided to get back on the road. As I went to
start Roadcow I noticed that I'd left the lights on...nuts! I usually turn
the Perko switch off at night but had thought I'd leave the running lights
on at night so I didn't get hit by some truck looking for a place to pull
off of the road. It turned out to be a blessing that Keith called since the
old cow started right up and I got back on the road without too much
trouble. I hadn't gone more than 3 miles at 20 mph when I saw about 10
police cars and fire engines, along with a few ambulances on the other side
of I-80, apparently somebody had gone off of the road the night before. You
wouldn't believe the difference in the roadway just 5 miles down the hill,
it was beautiful and sunny with the snow and rain tapering off and the rod
drying up, I was in heaven! I called Keith and told him that I had to scrape
the ice off the inside of Roadcow's windshield before I could get going but
now all was well. The remainder of the trip through Wyoming was uneventful
and I picked up a tail wind that allowed me to tow the 79 Westy up to 70 mph
but I felt more comfortable at 65. I stopped for gas at Little America ( big
mistake #2 high prices) and took pictures of the busses covered in ice and
even the trailer lights looked 10 times larger with all of the ice on it. I
stopped in Nebraska to rest at a really nice rest area and climbed a hill to
take pictures of the neat valley. Somewhere in Nebraska a couple in a Caddy
passed me, pulled in front, then slammed on the brakes to take a picture! I
had to get on the brakes pretty hard and later I'd find that I'd bent the
bumper brackets ( I'd reinforced them with 1/4" strap before I'd left) and
after the next gas stop I noticed that the 79 Westy would start to whip back
and forth pretty bad above 45 mph. It was late so I pulled over and slept at
a Roadside park near Sheldon, Neb. for the night. I got up in the morning to
find the drivers side bracket almost broken due to the flexing. I ate
breakfast, did some fishing in the pond, and decided to try and find a
welding shop in Sheldon about 7 miles north. As I pulled into town I stopped
at the Quickie mart and asked if there was a place in town that did welding
and was told right were it was. I pulled up and asked if the guy could, and
had time to weld up my bumper and was told he could get to it in a couple of
hours. I thanked him and explained that I was going to meet some people in
Kansas that afternoon and any help he could give me would be appreciated. I
pulled Roadcow into his shop, swept the floor where he'd be working and
jacked the bumper into place, and scraped the metal clean so he could weld
when he got to it. This must have impressed him since he came right over and
welded it up on the spot. Total down time about 1 hour. He welded 2 brackets
from the frame rails down to the bumper brackets for $20!! The Westy pulled
much nicer now and I made it to Kansas to deliver the 79 Westy to it's new
owner Lisa and share a great dinner of ribs with the Buskatiers.
 A big big thank you goes out to Jeffery Adams ( another Toyota 3TC Rivera
owner) who cut off 2 of the correct exhaust plugs so I could stop that
infernal exhaust leak!
  The next day Thursday about noon Bryant Baecht, Keith Petite both in
Bryant's Splitty and Stephen Black in Roadcow with me hit the road. I must
say Bryant's Bus with a 1600Dp with kadron's and a freeway flyer ran down
the road at 65 to 70 mph very nicely. We got about 180miles and stopped for
gas and I asked Bryant if he wanted to swap and drive each others bus, he
agreed and we were off again. Bryant too liked the 86 Vanagon seat in
Roadcow and we cruised along at 65 for another 2 hours until we decided to
stop and as I pulled off ( still driving the splitty) I heard a knocking in
the engine. Now this was a brand new not rebuilt engine with 800 careful
break in miles on it.We decided to park in the Wal Mart parking lot and
diagnose the problem. I popped the valve covers and found #4 exhaust to be
very loose. I tried to adjust it warm and we started the engine to hear a
knocking sound again. The general consensus was to wait there and let the
engine cool so we could properly adjust the valves cold in the hopes that
would take care of the problem. We were visited by the Wal Mart security
guard and told our story. Well after adjusting the valves we still had the
knocking ( we think it is a cam issue now) so we broke out the Richard
Kimbrough built tow bar and hooked it up to the splitty and I backed Roadcow
up to continue the towing duties. We'd brought the towbar since I was going
to pick up a 67 Deluxe at Jamie Auch's house in West Virginia and deliver it
to Kansas and incase of a breakdown. I must say the lighter splitty towed
much easier than the 79 Westy. It was fun to have 4 of us in Roadcow and
made the time fly to EB, with the laptop and cell phones to keep us busy it
was enjoyable traveling. The scenery got breathtaking about 50 miles west of
Asheville, NC and we all got anxious to get to EB when we saw the country.
We pulled in to Hagan Stone state park about 8:00 pm and found our way to EB
very easily due to great signs posted. As we pulled into the dark campground
we could hear people shouting ROADCOW HEY ROADCOW MADE IT! Needless to say
it was a wonderful welcome. A fellow Buskatier Leo came over and showed us a
great place to park on the infield and we made camp.
More later.
Britt
71 Westy Roadcow
Hillcountry Water Treatment

