Date: Tue, 16 Dec 2008 18:31:58 -0800 (PST)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jeff Lincoln <pattysbus(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 Intermittent Grinding sound when trying to start

Yes, there could be teeth damage. Yes, there could be insufficient voltage at the solenoid to kick the starter gear in completely. The bushing that the end of the starter shaft engages into could be worn or missing. The starter bolts that attach it to the engine could be loose. The solenoid / starter could be really dirty. If you have had an oil leak, they could be dirty and oily.

The hot start relay helps if there is a great loss between the back of the bus (battery and battery terminal on the solenoid) and the front of the bus (key switch) and back to the back of the bus (start position terminal on solenoid.)

If it is a matter of a worn or dirty solenoid, the hot start relay buys you a few months (maybe) until you have to replace something.

How it works is that the solenoid needs a good solid voltage to slam the starter gear into position and at the same time close the circuit that provides high amperage power to the starter. Since the wire that provides this power to the solenoid has to go all the way to the (probably close to worn out) key switch and all the way back again, and since every terminal has some or a lot of corrosion on it, it's typical to have power loss along the way. Proper repair is to replace terminals, get rid of corrosion, replace worn out starter switch.

An alternative to the proper fix is the "hot start relay." The relay takes almost no power to activate. Power can be fed directly from the bat + terminal on the solenoid through the relay and to the activation terminal on the solenoid. The relay is excited by that wire coming from the keyswitch. This way you always have full battery voltage going to activate the solenoid. Any 12V relay with probably anything 10 amp rating or higher will work. I used a Chrysler/Dodge/Plymouth headlight relay cuz it was cheap and easy to replace anywhere if it went bad. Radio Shack has some automotive relays that will work and are highly reliable and inexpensive.
Hope this helps - BTW - check all the items listed first regardless of whether you install a relay!

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington



--- On Mon, 12/15/08, Jeff Lincoln <pattysbus(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 
 It has been a while. I certainly hope this isn't too
 much of a newb question
 but I have not found a specific answer to this.
 
 We went to move the '78 bus from the old house to the
 new yesterday and
 experienced a grinding sound when trying to start it. It
 doesn't do it every
 time the key is turned. It did start and made the 20+ mile
 trip just fine.
