Date: Wed, 17 Dec 2008 09:57:50 -0600
From: Chris <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Re: [T2] '78 Intermittent Grinding sound when trying to start

Busahaulic wrote:
> An alternative to the proper fix is the "hot start relay." The relay takes almost no power to activate. I used a Chrysler/Dodge/Plymouth headlight relay cuz it was cheap and easy to replace anywhere if it went bad. 
I agree. Sounds like you need to do a system rebuild. Likely the cost 
will be negligible if you do the work yourself (less than a steak dinner).

What I would recommend is taking every electrical connection for the 
starter and starter circuit (key to starter) and clean it. Also remove 
the starter, take it apart and clean everything. New grease for the 
internal bushings. Check to see if the bushings and Bendix are in good 
shape (bushings not wallowed out, brushes in good condition, commutator 
clean, etc). A rebuild kit for the starter is cheap, cheap. While the 
starter is out look in the hole with a flashlight and have your 
assistant roll the engine over with a wrench. Inspect all of the 
flywheel teeth. If any are damaged or missing you found your problems. 
It might be that the starter is no longer properly lubricated inside and 
needs R&R i.e. the starter is rotating before the Bendix is engaged.

I used these occasions to clean-clean-clean. I also replace dead wires 
or crimp connectors or ground straps, inspect the heater stuff and 
cables, and so on. You're already under there, why not?

FWIW I used a Ford starter relay for my hot start relay. Just like 
Busahaulic said - it's good to be able to get a replacement anywhere. 
Mid-60s Fords like my '64-'66 Mustangs came with a heavy duty relay on 
the engine side of the fenderwell. This relay took a signal from the key 
switch and closed contacts that sent power to the starter. Last time I 
checked they cost about $10 or even less used. I'll bet alot of good 
ones are in the junkyards.

What I liked about them is they are sealed so no moisture problems. Some 
of the earlier ones could be taken apart and cleaned up if necessary. I 
saw that same starter relay on my '81 Mustang as well I recall (been 
over 18 years since I sold the car so don't hold me to it). Yeah it 
might be overkill compared to lower spec relays that would work fine but 
mine only let us down once in the middle of the summer went we parked 
the van immediately after a long highway run. Hot starter syndrome. Roll 
start city. I think the starter was beginning to seize up (need a 
rebuild) though.

Ciao!
Chris in Cookeville, TN
'78 Westy 2.7L
