Date: Tue, 23 Dec 2008 11:53:44 +1200
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: [T2] Re: Holy Poppin' Plugs - Batman!

>  Pulling over, I see the front plug on the left dancing around the
engine compartment tethered by its cable.

	I had a similar experience in England with an Austin A40 
Farina I'd just rented (in 1969).  The noise of the gases blowing in 
& out of the spark-plug hole was startling.
	The rental was 'tools not included'  -  as I immediately 
discovered.  After some minutes for cooling, I screwed the plug back 
in by hand, holding it with a sock.  It stayed there till I could 
drive to a workshop with a plug spanner (dozens of miles).
	Crossing threads is all too easy with the VW aircooled motor, 
as contrasted with readily-accessible, fully visible plug holes as on 
that old A40 and indeed most engines.  One measure to discourage 
thread-crossing is putting the spark-plug in by hand  -  just hold 
your tube-spanner with your fingers, feel the plug into the hole, 
turn it gently anticlockwise to feel the thread-start, and then 
gently turn the tube-spanner clockwise to thread the plug in.  No 
leverage is wanted, more than your hand can provide.  If the thread 
is crossed, you'll soon feel the plug jamming in the hole (within one 
turn).  If it's not crossed, the friction from dirt may defeat your 
manual insertion method within a couple turns (esp if you've failed 
to clean the thread on the plug), and then you'll have to add a lever 
on the end of the tube-spanner to get the plug all the way in.  With 
a spark-plug washer in good condition, wrist-tight with a lever only 
a few inches long is tight enough to clamp it down; indeed, it's all 
too easy to over-tighten, distorting the plug body and possibly 
changing the gap.

	I realise most on T2-list know all this, but I believe there 
are also a few nooer folks who may not.


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
