Date: Thu, 25 Dec 2008 17:59:03 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Having starting/low voltage/battery/etc problems?  I might have

I've been plagued for the past year or two with poor starting/battery 
dying/not charging/slow cranking/etc etc and everything associated with 
what you would think is a bad battery in my 78 westy.  I even changed 
the battery and the voltage regulator that didn't seem to fix the 
problem.  Put the hot-start relay on there and would still have times 
when the starter wouldn't turn over.  I then bought a nifty battery 
charger and charged, desulfated, equalized, and checked the specific 
gravity of each of the cells and the battery was verified to be good 
after all the tests.

Since that didn't seem to help, I noticed a bit of corrosion on the 
positive battery cable and I figured there might be some resistance on 
the 30 year old starter wire.  I went to autozone and picked up a 54inch 
4 gauge wire and ran that from the starter to the battery.  I chopped 
off the end, stripped it, and used a universal terminal hookup for the 
positive battery terminal because I had to hook up my aux battery 
isolator as well.  I bought a new braided battery ground strap and 
cleaned and added a second tranny ground strap for kicks.  All of the 
electrical terminals and connections, including the ones on the starter, 
were wire-wheeled clean and sprayed with progold deoxidizer and reinstalled.

After doing all of that, all I can say is WOW!  The bus cranks over so 
fast it's ridiculous.  Before during cranking my wideband o2 sensor 
would reset due to low voltage, but now it keeps chugging along like 
nothing happened.  Also, whenever I'd turn on my blower fan the lights 
would dim and then come back up - now it's barely even noticeable.

So if you find yourself having bad starts, you might want to check out 
your primary wiring and connections first before using a band-aid hot 
start relay, especially because *everything* on the car is fed through 
that one massive wire.  Plus, clean the connections thoroughly because 
it looked like the connection from my old starter cable was very 
oxidized and only connecting at a few very small contact points which 
would explain the poor charging/cranking/etc.  After all was said and 
done, this is a very cheap fix.  I think the 4 gauge wire was about $15, 
$10 for the ground strap, and $2 for the universal connector.  Progold 
is probably the most expensive stuff, but most any electrical cleaner 
will do for this.  If you're having the same problems I did and haven't 
already done the above, do it and be amazed :)

Mike  
