Date: Wed, 05 Jun 2002 09:40:24 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: David Maurio <david.maurio(-at-)verizon.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Electrical woes... still

Did you unplug the fuel injection computer?

I would take the bus home and do all the unplugging and connection cleaning 
myself.

I'd also be sure to try the voltage regulator and alternator.

Naturally unplug everything one at a time so you can zero in on the load.

After the above obvious loads I would look at the aux battery. Make sure 
that is isolated.

Then take the main wire that runs from the fuse block to the battery (or 
does it run to the starter?) off at the source (the battery or starter). 
Did the load go away? Should.

If taking off the main fuse block wire did end the load, then reconnect 
that wire at the battery where you took it off and then pull the same wire 
off the fuse block. This will tell you if the load is a ground - power 
leaking to ground from that wire like if the insulation was breaking down 
or if it had rubbed through someplace.

If the main fuse block wire runs to the starter versus the battery - 
disconnect the starter and run the fuse block wire directly to the battery 
and check for loads. This way you aren't checking for loads and not 
realizing the load is in the starter someplace. Check that main wire again.

Now for the kicker - a 1 milliamp load will not kill the battery over in 24 
hours - a clock in a modern digital display type stereo would pull that I'm 
sure.

Are you sure the battery is really dead and the starter circuit isn't 
failing? It's common on air cooled VW's in the hot weather.

The age old test for domestic cars with a dead battery was to turn the 
headlights on, try to crank the engine and have a helper watch for the 
headlights to dim or go out. Can't do that with the VW b/c the headlights 
are designed to go out when you crank the engine everytime...

Another common problem is corrosion on the battery cables that electrically 
isolate the battery and intermittently pass current. I have seen batteries 
that act as though they are dead and after a cleaning of the cable to body, 
cable to clamps, and clamps to battery the car acted normally.

Also I have seen a battery that acts almost dead - cranks slowly and weakly 
- that was fine after a cleaning.

I have also seen a battery show these symptoms intermittently - sometimes 
it happens and sometimes it doesn't - that needed a cleaning.

Have you replaced your ground strap. I have heard of them failing even 
though the ends were good and clean.

All this just indicates maintenance needs to be preformed.

Lastly - your battery may have a broken post inside that is occasionally 
making contact - sometimes it connects and all is well. Sometimes it 
doesn't and acts dead. Be careful any arcs inside the battery can lead to a 
battery explosion.

Hope this helps....

Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

