Date: Wed, 05 Jun 2002 11:46:03 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Are these new or restored? - 2002 Type 2

Grey market sort of.

The chassis of a US spec Beetle is taken south of the border. Once there it 
is restored, and on it installed all of the new makings of a Beetle. 
Basically everything from a new air cooled Beetle is installed on the US 
spec frame.

Then once returned to the US it can be registered as the 1973 VW Beetle it 
started out as.

You can import anything in the form of parts. You could import a bus as a 
pile of parts - you will have a problem getting it registered though unless 
you are using the VIN of an old bus. VIN swapping is illegal though - if 
they figure it out.

Could you do that with a Bus? Well you could take the bus off of the 
original chassis - somebody in Europe did it with a Splitty. If that would 
satisfy the US customs folks it could be done... However once all the 
sawing was done and the welding and the painting - you wouldn't really have 
a NEW bus, you'd have a rebuilt bus. We can do that with what we've got.

Now if you could break a new bus down and ship it up here and reassemble it 
and somehow transfer the serial numbers in the process you'd be in 
business. Of course if they ever caught you, you'd be in jail too.

One option would be to register a bus there (in South America) as a 25+ 
year old vehicle (buy a new bus and somehow register it as a 1973) and then 
import it. If South America is like Italy the system is fairly porous - 
alot slips through the cracks. Better have your ducks in a row and be 
prepared to see your bus seized and crushed if they catch you at the US 
border. Maybe you could just drive it across the border though. Once it got 
to the wilds of middle America - what small town tags and title office is 
going to inspect your bus top to bottom to see it is really an old one? 
Once it was in the system, you'd be okay I think.

Right now you can import anything as long as it is 25 years old + as I 
understand it. Alot of vintage European vehicles coming here - Fiats, Land 
Rovers, etc.

All that said - - - I think I'd prefer to stick $7,500 (reality has been 
much less than that) of my money and my time into my '78 Westy and be 
happy. That remaining $12,500 (from the original $20K price tag on the 
Brazil busses) would go a long way towards a driving vacation in Europe....

Yes a new "old" VW bus would be cool - even at $20K if I had $20K laying 
around. Just got to figure out the system... That's our good government 
trying to protect us from ourselves.... Those rear engined VW's are unsafe 
ya' know...





Chris M. <Busbodger - "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


