From: Bookwus1(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 20 Apr 2002 14:02:48 EDT
To: verve(-at-)mindspring.com, type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] It could be worse... Or could it? (A novella)

Hiya Steve,

Jeez, I feel for you, my friend.  You are dead right in that having and 
drving should not be that painful.  But..............(you knew that was 
coming, didn't you?)..............it sounds as if you have some sort of 
automotive experience (or maybe just some common sense).  You certainly knew 
to look for rust and you got some info from a newsgroup concerning repair 
resources.  That's good insofar as it went.  But you needed to do a lot more 
learning about Buses.  The fact of the matter is that most of the shops 
around know less than the folks on this List concerning the ins and outs of 
Buses.  If you simply take a Bus to these shops and trust them to do the 
right thing.....................well, that would be a big leap of faith for 
most of us.  I think you probably realize that now.  Bottom line is that the 
more you know about your Bus the better off you'll be at repair time.
For example, even though this place was recommended by folks on a newsgroup 
the failure to do something so basic as a compression test (before replacing 
parts) on a vehicle which has not been run in years tells me to get the Hell 
outta there.  Incompetent and unconcerned about your welfare is a generous 
description of these folks.
What you need now is a mentor to help you through your present situation.  
This person could advise as to local resources, give some first hand 
mechanical advice or assistance, and generally steer you in the right 
direction.  Sad to say, sounds to me as if this learning process is going to 
cost you some additional bucks yet, unless the shop in NJ is unusually good 
about honoring their guarantee (unlikely, isn't it?)
And the real pity of all this is that, given a Bus in good repair, you'd love 
driving it.  Getting on the Type 2 List was an excellent move.  I'm sure 
others will answer you letter also - they'll have specific ideas for you I'm 
sure.  Hang in there - we'd love to see you out on the highway.

Mike

1970 Bus - The Ruptured Duck
