Date: Sat, 20 Apr 2002 13:25:52 -0500
From: Art & Kathy Lynch <limecreek(-at-)stic.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Nikki's on the road again...

Hi Listees;
   Nikki Elko pulled out of the driveway here (4.5 miles west of
LaCoste, Texas) at 1:00 p.m. CST, heading north to David Schwartz's near
Dallas so he can wave his magic hands over her dual carbs before she
presses on to Atlanta and then Greensboro to drop her bus off with
Metalwiz for a nose transplant. Dolan will pick her up there and take
her to Washington for her flight home next weekend.

   In two days of futzing around with her bus I managed to get it to
idle somewhat properly, installed numerous missing shroud screws,
soldered up the right carb electric choke connection which was broken
when she arrived, tightened up the alternator (the lower bolt was loose
as a goose, looked like someone started the nut, but never tightened it
up), tightened up the fuel cutoff solenoid which was loose as well,
perhaps the cause of the idle problems. Checked the timing and dwell,
both within spec (after I put the timing inductor on the right plug wire
DOH!) Think I tracked her "pop-pop-pop" on decel to a missing exhaust
manifold nut.

   Anyhow, had a good visit with Nikki and her West Texas rescued cat,
ate some good food and sorta listened quietly in the background as Nikki
and Kathy chatted endlessly. She was kinda bummed about missing Everybus
and all the good folks there but it seems fate had a different
destination this time around.

   If any of you Texas listees see a red and white HiTop camper headed
north on IH-35 between San Antonio and Dallas, give a wave. If you see
her on the side of the road with her head in the engine compartment,
give a hand.

   I wasn't really pleased with the way her AVP rebuild was installed,
saw too many patches, shortcuts, wires going nowhere and missing nuts
and bolts to suit my taste.

That's the latest, she's yours now David  :-)

Art Lynch
Nikki Elko Rescue Specialist
Southern US Region
South Central Texas Division
