Date: Sun, 21 Apr 2002 09:09:31 -0700
From: Jack Maynard <maynardj(-at-)peak.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: FS: 67 westy complete, Portland, OR $500

Hello Bussers:

I'm back on the list shortly to let you all know about a
project I have to bail out of.

It is a 1967 westy pop-top with all its parts. The engine
will run, but it spews oil like it either has a cracked case
or no main seal. The guy I got it from called it the Exxon
Valdez. I drove it to storage three years ago, and the trans
was fine and the front end decent. I could probably get it
to run again with some work if someone needed to check the
trans and front end, but I'd rather not, and have priced it
accordingly.

The body: some rust in driver's side rocker, preforations,
door side rocker is gone..It was rusted badly and I chiseled
it out to be replaced with a 10" floor replacement piece and
a new rocker. If you were anal-retentive you might do the
frame ends as well. One rear corner and battery tray rusted
out. I have the sheet metal for these. 
There is a wrinkle and ding at the gutter line at the
drivers side rear that is not visible inside when the top
cabinet is in. I was going to just leave this spot alone and
call it character.  The nose is remarkably good and solid.
Front floorboards have a good bit of rust in them. Lower
cargo doors have normal inside rust, but I have two better
doors that come with it.

One other note about the rust: When I first got the bus I
pulled out everything and my wife and I wire wheeled the
inside and rust-inhibited it, and cleaned it out really
well. The bus has been in very dry storage  three years, and
is very dry. I moved it yesterday to a shop in portland, as
I needed to get it out of my storage spot in Corvallis. So
it isn't wet active rust... if that is a mitigating factor.

The camp kit is all there. Some recovered with black
material. 6 Jalousies ready for clean up and re-instalation.
The top fiberglass is in perfect shape, although painted
mint green. It has a decent non-standard canvas that works
and looks ok, but I have--and it comes with--a brand-new
still in the package Dawn Smythe PLF correct yellow canvas
with zippers and screen, a $250 value! 

Front seats are there and usable, steering wheel, dash tray,
12v wiper setup, all there. Brakes work. Original pearl
white color. 14" bus rims. tires hold air. 

I was considering pulling it to the Puyallup show and I
believe easily selling it for $1000, but I just dont have
the time as I am remodeling my house. 

I could part this bus for about $2000. My wife is really
fond of it, and she has mandated that it go to someone who
will put it back on the road, and !quick!, so I am about
giving it away ... 

The bus will need someone's love and time. And a trailer to
get it home. 
email me if you want it and can come get it.
maynardj(-at-)peak.org
Or call today ( Sun) or weekdays leave a message.
503-236-8787.
Whoever is first to have cash and take delivery gets it, so
dont hesitate! 

Jack Maynard
