Date: Wed, 27 Jan 2010 22:51:08 -0600
From: David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Harbor Freight for your bus (was Re: [T2] Clamp style meters)

Yes!  The IR pyrometers (laser temp meters) are very handy, the one I 
got at Harbor Freight a couple of years ago for $40 is still going 
strong, I believe it is now down to under $30.  For instance, after a 
long drive aim it at each wheel - if one is hotter than the others, that 
brake is probably dragging.  Also good as a double-check for temp 
gauges, seeing how well your refrigerator is working and where you need 
more insulation on cold nights.

Other great things from HF: Pick up a couple of boxesof the blue Nitrile 
gloves, they are great for keeping your hands clean during tune up 
sessions (or engine swaps... d'ohhhh!)  Their tape measures on sale are 
a bargain, and also the $2.99 electric flyswatters which will take down 
even the biggest wasps and horseflies.  I have electrocuted hundreds of 
bugs on two D batteries, it seems to last forever.  Their 4" and 4-1/2" 
angle grinders are a great deal at under $20 but don't use them with the 
grinding wheels, get the thinner cutoff wheels (10-pack about $7).  They 
cut through just about anything and will also grind like the thicker 
wheels.  The orange one is slightly better quality than the blue one. 
They even come with a set of extra brushes, how cool is that?

They have some new 270-degree-sweep electric gauges, I haven't tried 
them but for $20 each they look interesting.  Typical cheap electric 
gauges are only 90 degree sweep.

I bought the clamp meter too but the one at HF only works for A/C 
current.  The D/C ones are much more expensive and I don't think HF 
stocks them.  So, no use for that on the van unless it's for your shore 
power line.  Instead, pick up a few of their yellow/red digital 
multimeters, which are usually on sale for $2.99 (yellow, no backlight) 
or $3.99 (red, backlit).  I bought half a dozen and they are ALL still 
working and are reasonably accurate for use in a bus.  I keep one in the 
glove box permanently.   The purists will scoff and say to spend $100 on 
a Fluke meter, but I would rather have many inexpensive ones, so one is 
always nearby when I need it and I have a backup if I drop it or 
accidentally melt it with a torch.  Not that I've ever done that you 
understand.

I'd also skip their cordless tools, the batteries are not very good.  
Save your money for Lithium-Ion powered stuff (which they don't seem to 
have caught on to yet, but I'm sure it's coming.  My cordless drill is a 
Craftsman C3, and it is great.  $60 at Sears on black Friday).  Their 
flashlights are nothing to write home about so I'd skip those too - 
better deals can be had on E-Bay for the 1-watt Luxeon/Cree style, I 
recently picked up 5 for $13 with free shipping.  They are single-cell 
AA flashlights, small yet fairly bright.  One of those is permanently in 
my glove box also.

But overall, there are many great things for your bus, I didn't begin to 
cover them all.  Bring money, take your time and don't forget the 20% 
off coupons in the back of every car magazine, popular 
mechanics/electronics, I even found them in Readers Digest and the Wall 
Street Journal occasionally!  Great for big-ticket items.  Don't forget 
to check the clearance table near the front of the store.  Happy shopping!

Yeah, I'm a HF junkie, so sue me.  :-)

-David

On 1/27/2010 9:45 PM, Courtney Hook wrote:
> I'm heading across the border Saturday to go to Harborfreight. We don't have
> them up here in Canada. Can anyone think of any handy-dandy tools that come in
> really useful on our Westies? I'm thinking a clamp meter looks interesting. is
> there any use for one on the vans? I'm also thinking one of those laser temp
> readers looks good to.
