From: "cmeanley" <cmeanley(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>, "Type2List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 30 Jan 2010 12:35:58 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] buses and chains in British Columbia

Greetings from BC Jamie

Being from the island we would normally ask someone from Ont., what is snow
; )
the rule here is you must have chains or snowtires on certain routes, like
the highway to our town
note I said properly labeled snow tires, not all terrain or a 4-wheel drive.
On those rare times we
get a snowstorm, someone in a 4x4 pickup with all terrain tires goes in the
ditch on our highway
often ending with a fatality. Thats why this year new signs went up and the
RCMP have been
enforceing the rule and turning people back with out the required equipment.

I lived in Long bch and OC  for most of my life and as I skied the local
mtns, I always had a set of
chains. Cali CHP dosn't just turn you back they also ticket you as does
Oregon. Most mtn roads will
have a chains required sign and a pull over area to install them.

Heres my rant, if you live in an area prone to storms you need to know how
to install chains, its just another
skill set, as is knowing how to properly drive in snow and ice. As bus
drivers we like to think we keep some of the old
skills going, we  mostly do our own work, we are aware of whats going on in
the engine compartment and we
dont buy into the automatic everything heated gps isolate me in my cocoon
turn your brain off and point school of thought.

Now the rub on a bus is, chains are draped from the top, looked at your
fenders lately? Cut wheel wells start looking good.
Theres other ways to install, just not as easy. It was brought up about
paying people to install your chains, for me some dude
on the side of the highway is not touching either my car or money. Again, no
skills, your at the mercy of other people.
btw the correct chain up to be totally legal in Cali is all drives and a
drag on the trlr, used to be one side but I've heard its now
one on both sides. Alberta wants one on a front steer tire. You havent lived
untill you hump whats called a triple over an icey
tire at -20 (and repeat 3 more times).

One last thing and I'll turn the rant key off. I hate salt, especially the
new liquid reformulated type. Its bad on the environment,
its bad on your car, it destroys the electrical systems on trucks and is
thought to be one reason for wheels mysteriously seperating from their
axles. If your passed in an area that lays down the liquid stuff it coats
your windshield and quickly uses
up all your washer fluid and then you cant see at a time when you need to
most. Lastly, it gives people a false sense of
safety-look ma they salted the road-I can drive a 110-sorry 65mph for those
south.

ok, I used up all my posting for the year, sorry for the length, but I've
seen too many people in the ditch and when it
comes to winter safety, we're not only talking about your safety, but mine
and my family.

Chuck
Van Is
