Date: Sat, 30 Jan 2010 13:36:14 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] buses and chains in British Columbia

Good rant Chuck.
 
They never, ever, salt in real snow country, people just learn how to drive,
or natural selection takes place, either generally works fine IMHO.  And what
it does to cars, I remember being amazed a buddy from ND had a like '78 Dodge
Challenger he brought to WV looking new in '90 (This was an odd captive
Mitsubishi car with a lot of cool technology that were already long gone
rusted away in WV.)  It lasted all of about 2 years then rusted into oblivion
after 12 years in Bismark looking new.  Here in AK the natural selection
gets the "ditch divers," idiots who don't put on real snows, cause they got
them big 4x4's and all, keep on their BFG AT KOs, or even worse true mudder
tires.  They litter the Glen highway between Palmer and Anchorage every snowy
morning in October and November.  Problem of course is if they manage to kill
you when they lose it at 90mph, in a pickup (without any weight in the back
"because it's a 4x4") when you are driving a
 conservative 55mph with 4 good studs.
 
All that said, I'd never run true chains on the front of a VW transporter
unless you are gauranteed a solid 5-6 inches of snow to run on with no dry
spots.  Cable chains maybe, but otherwise anything over 40mph or so I couldn't
take the beating.
 
To me as I've said many a time, a late bay with good chains on the rear, or a
good studded snow on the rear (or ideally all round) is one of the best
handling snow vehicles of all time.  You can't trust to chains on the back and
"highway ribs" on the front though.
 
John

--- On Sat, 1/30/10, cmeanley <cmeanley(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:


On those rare times we get a snowstorm, someone in a 4x4 pickup with all
terrain tires goes in the ditch on our highway often ending with a fatality.
Thats why this
 
One last thing and I'll turn the rant key off. I hate salt, especially the
new liquid reformulated type. Its bad on the environment,
