From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "cmeanley" <cmeanley(-at-)shaw.ca>, "Type2List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 31 Jan 2010 09:27:26 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] buses and chains in British Columbia

I have been lucky enough that when I was in BC, or AK, or almost any
mountainous area.. it was easy sailing..
i must have been close once.. leaving Buffalo wyoming,, it was 102 degF..
heading for Ten Sleep and it was snowing like a bugger at 9995'   that is
another story, we ended up turning back for a different root .

I did travel on city buses that had chains installed at a pullout,,, as we
headed to the ski resorts in Zell Am See austria...

One of the things I have thought about,, as my Camper had tires chains when
i bought it.. and i never met the previous owner.. I assumed they would have
to drive somewhere fairly regularly that may require tire chains to have
them ...   or maybe just once they needed them, so they bought them, and
they may have never even used them,,  the tire chains don't show a lot of
wear.. and the body didn't show any ....
the mind set here maybe to carry a winter kit.... shovel, pickled sand,
booster cables, extra coat, blanket,  but tire chains would be very rare
imho.   for years , chains and studs have been banned now.. all season seems
to be adequate.. unlike Quebec just next door ,, they have made true snow
only tires mandatory for all roads,, from dec15 to mar15

 that makes it odd to understand,  Vancouver, or Longbeach strike me as not
a place of snow.. lol...  I need to visit there more often!
Jamie
----- Original Message ----- 
From: "cmeanley"
> the rule here is you must have chains or snowtires on certain routes, like
> the highway to our town
> note I said properly labeled snow tires, not all terrain or a 4-wheel
drive.
>   this year new signs went up and the
> RCMP have been
> enforceing the rule and turning people back with out the required
equipment.
>
> I lived in Long bch and OC  for most of my life and as I skied the local
> mtns, I always had a set of
> chains. Cali CHP dosn't just turn you back they also ticket you
