Date: Wed, 3 Feb 2010 10:40:37 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Ned Savoie <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Eurovan Seats into a 78 Westy

Oddly I have some practical experience here, but not specifically with the '99
version (and I'm not sure if the pre '95ish seats are drastically different or
not from the post '99.)  The rail spacing is the same on early EV seats at
least compared to late bay and vanagon, but the height of the rails (of the
seat and the track) on the EV seats are taller than the bay/vanagon rails. 
Hence a EV seat will slide onto a bay/vanagon track, but not the other way
(which is what I was doing retrofitting Vanagon seats to my EVC theft
recovery.)  BUT I do NOT know if I would trust the EV seat to lock on the
vanagon/bay rail correctly.  I did this a few times (as I had some not right
color EV seats, and was welding vanagon swivels onto the EV seat platforms I
had) and tried it out, the locks do engage, but I do not know if I trusted the
early EV seats to lock on the vanagon swivels (which are the same of course as
bay swivels or regular bay/vanagon rails.) 
 They do lock, but in a 55mph head on crash or a 30-40mph rear ender, YMMV,
and I don't know if I'd want to find out, probably OK, but if you do it,
presuming the '99 uses the same taller rails, you look real damn carefully and
make your decision.  Actual seat height is not drastically different between
them all (excepting a bays seat has long sunk an inch or two.)  The EV seat
rails again a bit higher, the seats I don't think really are much different
compared to a Vanagon at least, and using Vanagon seats on Vanagon swivels
welded to stock EV platforms put a vanagon seat at a good height in that EVC.
 
Food for thought at least.  I'd go with a nice set of Vanagon seats myself,
fit exactly, and are actually a bit wider and more comfortable for my fat rear
at least, though I do wonder if the EV seats might fit with the outboard
armrest in place and working, which would be a bit of a dubious benefit
perhaps.
 
John

--- On Wed, 2/3/10, Ned Savoie <ned(-at-)harbourlight.com> wrote:



My mechanic has a 99 Eurovan he's parting out. I'm wondering how much work
it would be to get the seats to work in a 78 Westy.
