Date: Thu, 4 Feb 2010 08:31:10 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: Heath Nieddu <hfnieddu(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Converting Interior on 73 Westy

I removed the stock 1972 Westy interior and replaced it with a 1979 interior.  I originally pulled my old sink unit because my kids couldn't reach the
door handle.  The 1979 (77-79, actually) configuration has much more
open floor.  I don't believe you can just swpap original units around.  They are cut for a particular orientation.

The swap-out was not difficult.  If you decide to do it, there are a few things I remember from when I did it.  You will have to...
- cut a hole for the sink drain and (optional) propane line feed.  With a '72, I had to put matching holes in the belly pan.
- cut a hole in the side for the drainpipe vent or suffer (YMMV) with a slower drain
- cover the old drain hole with something preferably steel
- cut out part of the "floor" of the z-bed to fit the floor contour

Otherwise, it's really just a matter of installing things in the right order (sink/stove unit then refer then z-bed. run electrical. install rear closet) and drilling holes for the mounts.  I was unable to install the head-banger closet because the "newer" westy conversions did something with the rear roof that made it flatter on the inside.  One day I'll put a version of the old flat shelf up there or just a simple cargo net.

I hope that helps, and good luck!  

Paul Manning
1972 Westy (hapy)
Lake Grove, OR
http://viewfromabus.blogspot.com/




----- Original Message ----
From: Heath Nieddu <hfnieddu(-at-)gmail.com>
Sent: Wed, February 3, 2010 7:22:43 PM
Subject: [T2] Converting Interior on 73 Westy

Hello all, Is it possible to reconfigure the interior of my 73 Westfalia
from stock, with the sink unit next to the sliding door, to something more
like the Berlin configuration, where the sink and most of the storage space
is on the left side?

If I'm looking at it correctly, I'm thinking that means I'll have to remove
my passenger side closet, and move the z-bed to the right in order to make
room for the storage and kitchen units on the left.

Is this a very difficult conversion to do?

Thanks!

Heath Nieddu
1973 Westfalia, Nakita
