Date: Sat, 6 Feb 2010 18:24:38 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Steering column part

At 6:14 PM -0800 5/2/10, John Anderson wrote:

...

>  OD slightly off anything stock, and we looked at work through
>scores of bearing catalogs.  Our solution, which might be the one here as it
>would last nicely in this application for
>  a long time was to turn a bushing from oil impregnated bronze, was still
>going when she traded the car at 450k.  If you got a machist buddy, not hard
>to do.

	From my lack of metalwork background, I make bold to endorse 
those ideas.
	The distal bearing of a typical British generator was 
sintered phosphor bronze thru somewheres approximately in the 
vicinity of the mid-1960s.  That is running at double crankshaft rpm, 
no?  And just a little spring-loaded oiler (what is the correct 
name?).
	Can you think of any non-Pom similar gennie or alternator bearings?
	Chrysler slapped the same type of large-area bearing into 
many suspensions in the 1930s; I've not heard of any criticism.  That 
is much nearer to the steering-column bearing we're discussing.
	Being as how it's Friday for some of youse NorteAmericanos, 
let me express a prejudice in favour of plain bearings (often called 
'bushes').  If well designed & lubricated, they can perform very 
well; and can be replicated at home by a machinist of modest ability 
(tho' far more than mine).
	I was trolley king {USA translation: wagon} of Khandallah 
(Wellington 5) on 5-spoke smooth cast-iron wheels, on steel axles 
square so you could bend the nails over them to affix to wooden 
chassis members, but cylindrical at the outer c. 3/4 " (any wanker 
ask for mm I'll hammer 'im :-P  -  we are wallowing in nostalgia 
here).  I tried many oils, including the fabled castor.  On a smooth 
footpath, I was faster than my buddies (probably the hysteresis loss 
in their solid-rubber pram tyres).  Then poor kids we'd never seen 
appeared from the far side of the suburb, and challenged us with 
junked gearbox 6xyz from the local garage.  They just bashed a 
whittled wooden axle into the inner circle, and ran the outer race 
straight on the pavement.  I'll never know whether it was their 
'luge' aerodynamcs that beat us, as I suspect; but it may have been 
their rolling-element bearings (with suitable oil).
	The difference is their 6xyz bearings were made in a type of 
factory my country has always lacked, in Sweden, Germany, later 
Japan, S. Korea, ...  anyone who wants to be a major industrial power 
and possibly become a prime target for the USAAF ;-).  I believe some 
efficiency in performance may be properly sacrificed for ready 
intermediate-tech mfg, and in one's own country.  (At the same time, 
as a Jawa enthusiast I admire the judicious use in engine & gearbox 
of cheap 6302 etc  -  price jumped to a few dollars.)

	The bearing originally inquired about is, I believe, a very 
undemanding use of good old sintered phosphor bronze.  You could 
impregnate it with oil and then seal it.

	Please forgive the nostalgic raving.


>  Anyone know besides junkyards who might carry a steering column bearing for
>  a 1974 transporter?



-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
