From: "Rich Van Baalen" <rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Jan 2002 19:31:55 -0500
Subject: Replacing Window Seals (long)

Now that I am a veteran of window seals;seven with no breakage (yeah!!); I
wanted to combine what worked for me from information everybody contributed
last month.  A long discussion thread occurred just about a month ago (Dec
5-12) on this and I would recommend that anybody getting ready to do this
project should take the time to read these.  There is also an article in the
technical library that is worth reading first.

First, patience is probably the most important thing to bring to this job!!
I can see how you could get tired (or a little frustrated), and all of a
sudden break the glass.  Another thing is to only use pressure applied by
your hands when setting the window back in place.  No rubber mallets, no
fist action.

Somebody recommended doing a bunch together and working it "assembly line
style".  I put the windshields in on the first weekend, and did the other
five (side and rear windows) two weekends later.  This is a great idea, as
you never know what you are going to find once the glass and seals are out.
I found rust and several small holes in places I could not see when the
glass was in; one hole was directly above the fuse panel which explained why
weird electrical problems would sometimes occur on rainy days <g>.

In addition to stuff needed to replace the seals, I would make sure you had
a wire wheel, primer, paint, Naval Jelly, JBWeld (to plug those holes unless
you are into metalworking) sandpaper,etc standing by to handle rust.  I
would up running to the store after I had pulled the windshields, which
added more time to the project.

Eric (I think) recommended using roofing tar (non fibrous) as a sealant.
This worked out very well for me and time will tell how well it works in
keeping the seals in place and keeping rust from forming in the future.  I
had to buy it in a gallon can for about $7.00 and probably didn't use more
than 8 ounces for the project.
I filled a 79 cent condiment bottle with the tar.  After I put the new seals
on the windows (and just before I installed them) I squeezed a small bead of
tar UNDER the rubber flap that faces the outside portion of the window.  As
I understand, this will help keep a good seal between the rubber and the
glass.  Some of it will ooze out when you are putting the window back in,
but mineral spirits cleaned it right up afterwards.  I also used a throwaway
paint brush to paint a thin layer of tar on the window frame itself.  Eric
said that not only will this tar help to create a good seal, it will prevent
rust from forming in the future.

For the 'string trick' I used the monofilament line I use on the weed eater.
If I was doing the back window again I would use something a little thicker,
but it was perfect for the windshields and side windows.  I also found that
a little dish soap rubbed on the seal where the string was (just before I
put the window in made installation alot easier.

Except for the back window I was able to install the windows by myself.
However (IMHO) three people are really needed to do the back.  My wife and
daughter held the window in place while I helped set it in and then crawled
into the back of the bus to do the string thing.  Make the installation of
the back glass the last one you do and have the person(s) that will help you
do it watch you do a side window first.  I tried to explain the procedure to
my wife and she just didn't understand it until we were in the middle of the
installation.  Because of the window size, knowing when and where to push
from the outside is important.

Unless you have a death wish, make sure you are wearing old clothes when you
put the windows in.  The roofing tar will get on your hands and your
clothes. Although it will come off of your hands with mineral spirits, it
will not come off of your clothes in the laundry.  I am still catching he**
over the new(er) pair of jeans I was wearing.  Make sure you have mineral
spirits, rags and lots of paper towels around.  They do a nice job of
getting excess roofing tar off of the glass, seal, window frames and your
body.


