Date: Wed, 9 Jan 2002 00:23:46 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] [VB] 6 volt to 12 volt-Solid state voltage regulators

>From: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org (craig k)
>Date: Mon, 7 Jan 2002 08:04:27 -0600
>
>i was curious - if one electrically insulated the unit from the chassis,
>could you run a separate 6v battery hooked up just to the heater? sure,
>you'd have to take it out and charge it now and again, but big whoop.

Sure, you could do this.  It wouldn't even have to be insulated from
the chassis - you could ground the heater and the negative terminal
of the 6 V battery to the chassis.  You'd just have to make sure there
were *no* other connections (besides ground) from the 12 V system to
the heater or the 6 V battery.

Another possibility, that a couple of people mentioned in email, would
be to install two six volt starting batteries wired in series.  This
would give you 6 volts for the heater and 12 volts to the rest of the
car.  This can work and I have worked on military trucks where the
same thing was done but for a 12/24 split.  The problems here are
that the battery that is directly connected to ground will discharge
faster than the other one, and there can be subtle problems that
result in things like the entire starter current trying to ground
through your gas heater.

If you just wanted to use an auxiliary 6 volt battery for the heater,
the size would depend on how long you want the heater to run before
you have to charge the battery.  That Southwind manual said their
6 V heaters drew from 11 to 14 A.  Assuming 14 A, a 77 amp-hour 6-volt
battery (IIRC the stock 6 V size according to Bentley) would let you
run the gas heater for around 5 hours total before it would _need_
a charge.  It would be better to charge it more often, as starting
batteries don't "like" deep discharges.  A better option might be
to use a 6 volt "gel cel" sealed lead-acid battery; these are more
expensive but would last longer in this application.

To get really fancy, you could install an auxiliary 6 volt battery
_and_ a circuit to charge it from the 12 volt system!  You'd need
to add a relay to shut off the charging when the key is off (sort
of like the "dual battery relay" kits, and you might want a diode
as a back-up to that.  You can't put the charge in as fast as you
take it out, so you would still probably need to charge the 6 volt
battery manually sometimes, but it would still save some manual
recharging.

If you really wanted to spend money and have an electronics project,
Gates/Hawker "Cyclon" batteries would probably be really cool.
According to them, if you have great big wads of charging current
and are careful on how you apply it, you can take those batteries
from zilch to a nearly full charge in half an hour (experimental
electric car people love this).  These batteries have rather specific
ideas about how they want to be charged, though, which is why the
charger design would be non-trivial.
 
>i have a 6v bug heater that i keep looking at putting in the s/c...

Yeah, those Austin winters can be rough.  :)

Matt Roberds


