Date: Wed, 10 Nov 2010 16:42:40 -0600
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Carb upgrade

Martin Strandgard wrote:
>> I'm considering swapping out the dual Solex on my '74 transporter to
>>     
> the dual Weber hoping for a sight bump up in horsepower. Has anyone done
> this and does it help or would it be better to go with injectors
> instead?
>
> My sage words of advice would be whichever way you go, get new stuff.
> Used carbs or FI can lead you to swap one set of probs for another! 
>   
I'll agree with Martin. Buy new if you can. At least used Dellortos have 
bearings in the butterfly shafts. Other brands have a steel shaft 
twisting in an aluminum body.

I put used 36mm DRLA Dells on my Beetle's Type IV engine and in the end 
had to buy intakes, linkage, K&N air cleaners, jets, rebuild kits, 
venturis and so forth. It fit my budget at the time b/c I could buy it a 
little at a time. Once I had the whole pile of parts I began installing 
it. There is a Performance Porsche handbook that helped me choose the 
36mm DRLA carbs and parts like venturi.  Carbs worked well but were 
noisy b/c of the open aircleaners (no aircleaner box). Fun in a Beetle 
"hot rod" but likely would get old going crosscountry.

I have the fuel injected Type IV heads (small valves) and plan to 
upgrade to the older early Type IV heads with larger valves someday. May 
lead to reworking all the jets again. Dunno.

Overall I'm very happy with the carbs though. The good linkage helped. I 
have seen some real junk linkage kits at swap meets. i don't mean junk 
'cause they were old. I mean junk because of the design. A friend with a 
warmed over VW Thing that has one of these kits. All sorts of slop means 
the carbs will never be in sync from idle to the floor.

I used BAS Ahnendorp linkage with little ball and socket joints. You 
could make your own with McMaster-Carr parts. No slop, very smooth. Easy 
to dial in. At the time (20 years ago) they had the only intakes I could 
buy that would fit under a closed Beetle engine lid.

ALL that said I had stock fuel injection on my Westy (pre-Corvair) and 
it worked very well considring the primitive design. Modern fuel 
inection is much better than that though. I had the factory fuel 
injection figured out so it was easy to maintain too. You'll need alot 
of parts to retrofit it to a carb bus. Buy the whole thing from a wreck 
if you go that route. Have you looked at Megasquirt?

Chris in TN
