Date: Thu, 11 Nov 2010 11:48:54 -0600 (CST)
From: e_identity <1970westfalia(-at-)verizon.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 1970 Westfalia for available in Maryland:

The time has come for me to move on.  I have had this van for almost 20 years, and gained a lot from the experience.  About three years ago, I began a muffler replacement.  In the removal process, I snapped a manifold stud on the head, I removed the head, had the stud replaced, but never got the motor reassembled.  It was in ok running shape three years ago, but now the motor is disassembled.  I have concluded that I will never get around to reassembling the motor, so it is time to move on.

The good:  1600 DP with conservative upgrades.  Electronic ignition, type IV oil cooler, alternator with porche pulley (increases fan speed so that engine runs cool).  Gene Berg shifter, replaced nose cone bushings in transmission.  Replaced steering gear box w/ bus boys rebuild.  Wired in ammeter, tachometer, dipstick oil temp sender, head temp sender, etc...  Most of the original camping gear is there.

The bad:  There is some rust, and it hasn't decreased over the last three years.  Underbody is mostly solid, but leaks that allowed rain in created some interior rust.  Also, under the windshield seal has rust.  Engine needs to be reassembled and, after three years, may have other problems.  Tires are correct size and rating, but after three years may not be serviceable.  Battery needs replacing.   Overall, a lot of time will be needed to get this up and running.

Pictures:  http://picasaweb.google.com/0.identity/1970Westfalia?authkey=Gv1sRgCMPihN-zjdbibQ&feat=directlink

Price:  negotiable.  I have lots of replacement parts (e.g. spare sets of bearings, spare brake parts, spare ball joints, spare trim parts, boxes of carbs and distributors, spare engine parts, etc...).  So price would depend on what is included in the overall package.

If interested, reply to 1970Westfalia(-at-)verizon.net
I am posting here first, but will post on TheSamba if there is not interest here.
