Date: Thu, 11 Nov 2010 14:41:57 -0500
From: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
To: Type II List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: carb problem

Hello T2ers!  Well, something is draining my battery as I replaced it 
yesterday and it had lost so much juice that it would barely even run 
the electric fuel pump today.  I replaced the condenser, which was bad 
as suspected (probably because of whatever is draining the battery), and 
the bus does turn over.   But as before, it is starving for fuel.  I 
recently rebuilt the Weber Progressive but it did not fix the problem 
and I created another by allowing (grin) it to fall and break a piece 
off that secures the rod that holds the float.  I fixed that temporarily 
but I wouldn't trust it for an out-of-town drive.  So I'm looking at 
either a used replacement Weber or possibly a new dual-carb setup.  If 
somebody knows of a bus where I could buy a complete, working, stock FI 
system at a decent price, I would be interested.  Otherwise, it's way 
more trouble than it's worth to me right now.  I need to get the damned 
thing running!  Consistently.  A listee has offered to sell me a used 
Weber right but he's dragging his feet on getting it to me.  I guess 
he's trying to give me enough time to decided to bite the bullet and buy 
something new.  I did bite the bullet yesterday and bought the 
Petronix/SVDA setup from BD but decided to go buy the solenoid for my 
009 when I figured out that it won't get here by the weekend and it's 
going to get cold next week.  But I've needed that for a while.  I just 
hope the Chinese dizzy is within specs.  I could have bought the 
original Bosch without the electronic ignition for $10 more.  But the EI 
would have been an additional $69.95.  And I'm cheap!

I've been monitoring the list during my travels and I've enjoyed it 
immensely.  Though since I had nothing useful to contribute, I have only 
rarely contributed.  I'm at home now and I may still have nothing to 
contribute but a bunch of stupid questions.   But get ready 'cause here 
they come!  Suggestions welcomed.  Thanks....KR

-- 
Kevin H. Roberts
76 Westy (the Bopmobile)
1.7,Single Weber, 009 (but not for long)
Chattanooga, TN 
Email:  Kevin(-at-)bopsax.com
Website:  http://www.bopsax.com
