From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Steve Sandlin'" <vwcarlocks(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: "'type2list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 11 Nov 2010 15:40:38 -0500
Subject: RE: ignition key code

Hi Steve,

 

Thanks for the head's up. I actually contacted you about a year ago-and you
set me straight on this issue. My truck currently does not have a regular
ignition, but it does have locks on the treasure chest doors. These are not
original, and took me about 3 years to find. They are R-profile cylinders,
so I am taking this as the profile I will try to get everything to match. I
further understood from our correspondence last year, that it is best to
start with the ignition-and re-key to match this. SO I have since gotten an
R-profile ignition. 

 

I understand that I will need to re-key the treasure chest cylinders to
match the ignition I plan on installing. I just wanted to figure out the
keying before I installed the pod & ignition.

 

I'm not sure the year of this pod & ignition, but I think it is a 72 or 73?
Not sure, it looks similar to my '69 pod, but is a little different. It came
with an R-profile key, but I can't get it to turn, so I figure I have the
wrong key for it.

 

I plan on taking my truck off the road once the salt starts flying. At that
point I hope to have some time, and I figured I would take the parts and
have them keyed alike. I need the ignition code to know what I need to
match. Maybe it makes more sense to send the whole thing to you, along with
the treasure chest locks etc.

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi

 

From: Steve Sandlin [mailto:vwcarlocks(-at-)hotmail.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, November 09, 2010 10:25 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com; kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
Subject: ignition key code

 

I forgot to give details to get the code.  The ignition lock must be removed
from the housing to see the code.  It is necessary to drill an small hole
directly in line with the top of the keyway, and back 1/2" from the edge of
the lock housing.  You're just drilling through the pot metal, so go easy.
With the hole drilled, you can depress the retainer and pry the lock
cylinder from the housing.  The code is on the lock cylinder.
Steve Sandlin

 

Kevin, If you're sure that the ignition you have is an R profile, be aware
that it can't be changed to an L profile which is what the rest of your bus
is.  The pre-71 ignitions really aren't made to be rekeyed, though the rest
of the locks are.  Beginning with the '71 model year, the ignition is
different and is designed to be serviced and rekeyed.
Steve Sandlin
Licensed Locksmith #B12682
79 bus
84 westy
74 412
00 new beetle
