From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 13 Feb 2004 12:57:46 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: end of 61 clutch issues _ Dancing a jig

Well, It was I thought ready to pop the engine in, but I looked at the FW end 
of it, and noticed the round thingy in the middle of the clutch was kinda 
chewed.    Pretty bad, as in it's garbage .    Nice german clutch, RIP.   I think 
the arm had been in the process of breaking for some time .. a month?   the 
clutch had been feeling progressively a little more  squidgey.  

So I found a couple used 9 spring clutches in the back shed, and putting them 
on the driveway with TO bearing side up and
 Danced the Clutch Jig.   Which is where you have two clutches and you jump 
up and down on them, side to side, one per foot.  try it.  kinda fun.  

  Anyway I picked one that seemed to bounce nicely, sanded the rust off it, 
gave th FW a cleaning and sanding and installed the clutch on the trusty 1600 
sp w/ typeIV doghouse.   Didn't look like oil was leaking so I didn't check the 
mainseal.  It's not that old anyway.

   Unfourtunately I had accordianned out one of the heat tubes when I had 
pulled the motor out.  I dug around and didn't find a nice early one anywhere, so 
decided to re- coil it.  So I pulled it off the bus.  For some odd reason I 
carefully undid the original metal strap holding th accordian to the pod, and 
carefully eased everything apart, coiled the metal flex pipe back together, 
which wasn't too tricky actually, and reassembled it with the OEM metal strap.  
 Then I duct taped the torn bits of the grey casing over the metal flex tube. 
 and installed the heater duct onto the bus. 

   New fuel line installed.  Installed bowden tube for accelerator cable.. a 
bug one... pulled the end off, cut it ~5/8" shorter, put end back on.   .   It 
didn't have one and was cutting into the tranny ( I can't believe i didn't 
have one in there... maybe it was old gas line and fell apart)  Tranny boots 
need replacing, don't have any handy... those febi bilstein boots ones are the 
shidt, gotta get me some.  everything else looks okay. 

Managed to stuff the motor back into place,  and attached all wires and 
cables.   I should label the extra ones i have (brakes for euro taillights, for oil 
temp, for the tach, and an extra).  

Bus started up at the twist of a key.  The clutch worked nicely, felt much 
less squishy than before. Nice and firm and good.   needs adjusting still.   

..............................................................................
.........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
