From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 17 Feb 2004 15:11:58 EST
To: mike.noyd(-at-)netxv.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] windshield leak

well, usually they leak beteen the seals and the bus.    You can remove them 
by destroying either the seals or the glass, rarely can you salvage both.   
Unless the repro glass was badly cut, I doubt that is the issue.   Much more 
often the culprit is the less that perfect windsheild ledges.   any rust dimples 
will allow water to ooze past the seal.   You can see if water is oozing 
between the seal and glass or seal and bus.     I did have a bad leak with a back 
hatch glass that was very badly recut,   but there was a gap I could wedge my 
pinky into.   

Roofing tar is good for your bus,  and it smells like La Brea Tar Pits.   
Take your kids to see all the neat ancient bones there.  from dire wolves and 
woolley mammoths and critters like that.    I go there in spirit when I smell 
roofing tar.  :)   don't be afraid.   you can use nitrile gloves to keep your 
hands clean.       If you encase your bus in roofing tar maybe they'll dig it up 
in 40,000 years.

I use roofing tar on the bottom and bottom corners of the windsheild area 
before installing the window, and oil the seal where the glass goes in it.   
cleans up w/ WD-40.

Best to completely clean off all rust when the glass is out, and repaint.   
use spot putty to fill in any dimples.   Weld up holes as needed.

Of course the repro seals available now are not as nice as the OEM ones.   
But I really liked the ones I got from the Bus Depot.   good texture rubber,  
flexible and lay down really nice when installed.



In a message dated 2/17/2004 10:54:14 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
mike.noyd(-at-)netxv.net writes:
My '61 Panel leaks at the outboard corners on the left and right windshields.
I had them removed by a local glass company. The seals were replaced and the
glass reinstalled with sealant. The leak is not as bad, but in even light rain
there is a steady drip, drip, drip. The glass company said that the
windshields are not original and the current ones weren't properly cut and
fitted. I won't be able to remove them again without breakage ( I believe). I
know this is a common problem, does anyone have a fix?

..............................................................................
.........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
