Date: Tue, 27 Apr 2004 10:58:35 -0500
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] !(-at-)!(-at-)#% Key won't come out!

Esteemed List:

Chiming in a bit late on this one - mea culpa...  Too much bench-racing
of late!

PRAY all that it is, is the lock cylinder OR the electrical portion of
the switch assembly...

I experienced a similar happening several years back with the '72 - it
turned out to be the steering column lock assembly slide mechanism
shearing off, thus permanently locking the steering wheel and
incapacitating the key into a semi-comatose state in the lock cylinder.
Fortunately, it happened in the driveway right after I had moved the 914
out and the bus into the carport.  If the whole lock cylinder assembly
is loose inside the housing, it's probably a good indication that the
super secret, hidden set screws that hold it firm have wiggled loose.
Between the Type 2 List and the Bentley I was able to get it all
repaired, and major kudos to Steve of Steve's Lock Shop for providing
the now-obsoleted column lock assembly.  He shipped it to me (in the
Peeples Republick of Kali) on faith from Tejas, accepting NO money
upfront - he told me if it works (it needed a little help), send him the
dollars, if not, just ship it back on my dime...

The moral is that if the whole shooting match seems loose or wobbling
inside the housing - you really NEED to check those set screws!  They
are the ones hidden up in the same threaded holes closest to you as you
sit in the seat, capped over by 2 of the 4 phillips head screws on the
bottom of the housing - on the years before '75 methinks...

Bus on!

Jim Hayden


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
