From: "Jay Brown" <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 29 Oct 2002 11:13:54 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Snake oil or real product

Hi Mike & List,

	It seems to me that there are couple of possible reasons to supplement
regular filtration with the magnetic approach.  All mechanical filters have
to allow the fluids they are filtering to flow through them.  To do this,
they can only filter out objects down to a nominal micron size.  In general,
the finer the micron rating, the less flow you will get at any given
pressure.  I am not sure what the nominal micron rating is on the Mann or
Mahle filters we use, but it cannot be finite by any means, which indicates
that it will leave some small metal particles suspended in the oil.
	There is also a possibility (admittedly minimal) of the inside of the
filter tearing or delaminating due to manufacturing defects etc.  If this
were to happen, you could have a bunch of nasty muck (sorry for the
technical terminology) getting into your engine in a very short time.  By
using the magnetic approach as a backup, any steel particles in this
filtered muck would still be trapped against the body of your filter
housing, not making their way back into your engine.  This is what my
grandfather would refer to as the "belt and suspenders" approach.
	A few years ago, I worked with a guy who manufactured what is probably the
best designed magnetic filter accessory available, the Halex Coil.  It uses
a large rare earth magnet attached to a steel coil that wraps around spin-on
oil filters.  Here's a link:
http://www3.sympatico.ca/trader/halex_coil.html.  This design takes away any
worry of the magnet falling off, or moving around on your engine (which is
good, since the retail price was about $85.00 as I recall).

	Question: Do I use the Halex Coil? 	Answer: No, I can't justify spending
that type of money on an accessory.
	Question:  Do I have a big ol' rare earth magnet on my filter now?	Answer:
You bet!

	As George Lyle and a few others have pointed out,
http://www.wondermagnet.com has many different sizes of rare earth magnets
available at affordable prices.  I use various sizes in my bus to attach my
rear hatch screen (#3) (no holes to drill, and a much tighter fit), to keep
my curtains closed tight while camping to avoid prying eyes (#4), and the
forementioned oil filter supplement (#35).  I also have a bunch of the #4
magnets on my fridge to hold all the pictures and such (I think I may have a
slight magnet addiction).
	But enough rambling already.  For my money, magnetic supplementation is a
great addition to the stock VW oil filtration system.  But of course that is
just my oppinion, and I could be wrong...

					Best Regards,
					Jay Brown
					'72 Hardtop Camper - Gretta
					'85 Vanagon Westfalia - Ursula
					http://www.geocities.com/vwcamper72

Mike Benthin Wrote:

<<Whoa- the filter is catching and holding any particles already- why do
you need the magnet to hold the particles against the inside wall of the
filter?  There may be value if there is no filter.>>
