From: "cmeanley" <cmeanley(-at-)pacificcoast.net>
To: <CurtisMittong(-at-)cs.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 29 Oct 2002 18:15:34 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] New dude on the block

I'm definitely the wrong guy to ask when it comes to value. It's probably
worth 3K, but then I really hate to get in a bidding war. Unless its a real
special model, I figure there's always another one. So far there always has
been. Its the usual deal, keep your eye out, be the first one there with cash,
and walk away if it doesn't smell right. I dont like that the dividers have
been cut out, I think it will be a problem when you go to resell it, dead
stock always brings more $. In brief, dry is good, rust never sleeps. I'd want
to know who did the engine and if it was a reputable builder it might be worth
the extra money. There a some builders to steer (run) clear of and I'm sure
others will chime in. I guess it comes down to what you want, if you want a
camper, then hold out for one, if that bus speaks to you, then tell the guy
that this is what I'm got to spend and if not with you, then with someone
else. Best advice, dont let yourself get rushed into the first one that comes
along. As my old pap used to say, women and cars are like buses, miss one and
another will be along in twenty minutes. (ok, I'm ducking now) lol
Chuck
Van Is
  ----- Original Message -----
  From: CurtisMittong(-at-)cs.com
  To: cmeanley(-at-)pacificcoast.net
  Sent: Tuesday, October 29, 2002 5:24 PM
  Subject: Re: [T2] New dude on the block


  Thanks for all the info.  He and I have been emailing all day.  I hinted
that the number $3000 would be better and he seemed to think that was a viable
offer.  Is $3000 good, or should I shoot for a lower number on maybe a
different bus?  I certainly wasn't going to pay $5000.  When I went to see it,
I told him that I couldn't afford that much.  As soon as the auction ended he
emailed me for an offer and I didn't give anything concrete, but $3000 was
tossed around.  He has one more guy that is making offers and considering it.

  I guess I can't speak intelligently about the engine.  All I know is that it
started and ran very well, and offered plenty of power (as much as can be
expected :).  No bogs, noises, or funny characteristics.  Of course, would I
know my butt from a hole in the ground?  Not when it comes to VWs!  I will
probably ask him who did the engine, just in case there is an implied
warranty.  If its a good shop and they want to keep their reputation they
should take responsibility for it if it fails regardless of warranty.  I've
had pretty good experiences that way with any machine shop I've used before.

  Thanks so much.
  Curtis
