Date: Wed, 9 Nov 2005 07:22:14 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Yet Another Long Breakdown Story

8am: On the way to work I stopped at Pep Boys for oil. Topped up my oil and
jumped on the freeway. Didn't even get one exit up when the bus started
bogging, like it was having fuel starvation issues again.

I pull off and it would idle ok, but just had no power. Quick check of the
chokes and throttle butterflies show they were moving freely. Hmm. Pull plug
wires and #2 made only a slight difference. Other 3 were normal (almost
stalling when pulled). I figure I can putt the rest of the way to work on
this and head out. Nope. At the next light the bus died and wouldn't start.
I had felt it was going, so pulled into the left turn lane for a shopping
center. So I was in a turn lane pointed uphill. Nice.

After a few minutes of me trying to wave the Lone Tree rich housewives
around a construction worker comes up and offers to push me into the parking
lot with his van. Heck yes! Went smoothly, with no damage to my bumpers or
anything. Yay!

After putzing around checking connections and vacuum leaks, I check the fuel
pump output. While cranking the engine the fuel just came out in little
blubs. Seems way to little to me. So I figure it's yet another fuel pump
issue. And the fact that I could get it to rev for a few seconds before it
died again told me it was getting spark and the carbs were trying to feed
the engine. So I grabbed my siezed Facet that I had bought at Napa 2 months
ago or so and called the wife to pick me up. We went to Napa and I showed
the clerk the pump and explained I had no receipts on me or anything, he
still gave me credit for it! Sweet! Too bad he didn't have another one. But
he had a Carter rotary pump for $15 more. Ok. Works for me.

I plugged it in and tested it. Gas gushed out of it. Ok, much better. Hook
everything back up.... Nothing. WTF?

So I went through everything I could think of. I swapped out the coil,
swapped my distributor for my spare 009 that's loaded with points, etc.
Nothing made a difference. Even replaced the rotor. (Don't have a spare
cap.) By now it was 3pm or so and I felt like I was losing my mind. I
emailed Troy to see if he had any ideas because by now I wasn't thinking too
clearly. As soon as I sent the email off (via my Blackberry since I was in a
parking lot) I thought to check compression.

#1: 100
#2: 80
#3: 110
#4: 105

Ok, #2 is bad but it shouldn't cause these problems. Also, I dropped the #2
sparkplug in the tin! Not a good day! It's still there.

I gave up. I buttoned up the bus and waited for my wife to come pick me up
after her Dr's appointment. Troy called and said leaving my bus in that
neighborhood was a bad idea since it would be towed almost certainly. But he
had a solution: He had a friend with a trailer and he could come pick up the
bus and take it home for me. (My AAA is through my Sprint phone and the wife
didn't pay the bill...) Ok!

A little bit later (5:30-6... I forget) Troy showed up. The trailer had
ramps, but no winch to get the bus up there. Oh oh. Well, Troy had tiedown
straps that were rated for 5000 lbs each. we hooked those to the trailer and
to the hooks at the front of the bus and slooooowly winched the bus up onto
the trailer. Troy was trying to chop his finger off while I was tearing my
elbow to shreds. But we got it up and tied down. WooHoo!

The bus is home now. Unfortunately I won't be able to do anything to it
until a week from Saturday since I'm flying to Cali Friday night for my
brother-in-law's baby shower. :( Since my wife likes to schedule one thing
to do a day, that means shuttling around town back and forth in the Volvo.

I can only think of two possible causes for what happened. Either the fuel
tank is plugging up (filter was clear though) or the carbs are both dead at
the same time. Plugged with something. I'm going to tear down the carbs when
I get a chance and see if that's the problem. That's something I can do in
the morning before work.

--
Don
http://www.donimages.com/gwb/
