From: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Date: Thu, 16 Aug 2007 16:31:52 -0400
Subject: Re: Re: [T2] OIl Cooling

Hey Bob,

     To be honest, I just don't know. I bought my Bus about 5 years ago. It had a rebuilt motor, and a rebuilt transmission. It had also just gotten a new paint job, and new brakes. The rest of the car was either not there, or needed fixing. There were no windows, no chrome, no headlights, no interior, nothing. 

Before I bought it, it had sat under the roof of a warehouse in that very condition (with a car cover) for about 3 years, just collecting dust. Just prior to getting it painted, he had that new (rebuilt) motor installed by GEX. I want to say that he drove it less than 250 miles, and I know that I personally haven't gone but MAYBE 250 miles myself.  It's only "sat" in my posession for about a year and a half, but the rest of the time I've owned it, it's been started at least once every week and a half. 

Really, it probably has just about 500 miles on it, if even that. I guess that kind of answers the reason as to why it feels like it runs hot. 

One thing I did notice was that the adjustable screws / nuts on the rocker arm thingy that goes above the valves... those are all worn and obviously used. The lifters were crap too, so I replaced all the lifters with ones from Bus Depot (the more expensive German ones, as per yours and everyone else's recommendation). The Bus now drives perfectly... and the lifters only take maybe 30 seconds at most to fully pump up when I've let it sit for 2 weeks. 


That said though, I do live in Florida and I would like to start driving it to the beach (10 minute drive), so I'd like for it to always run cool. I suppose there's no real harm in having it run TOO cool, right? Especially if I hook up the thermostat spring and everything?


Thanks!!!

Todd


> From: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net"
> To: toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net
> Subject: Re: [T2] OIl Cooling
> 
> how many miles on the engine??
> After a rebuild they will run very hot for the first few thousand miles as
> they seat the new bearings and pistons etc.
> 
> good luck, I had terrible experience with GEX, hope you got one of the
> mistakes that were actually made right
> 
> Bob
