Date: Sat, 18 Aug 2007 21:19:31 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: johnvi(-at-)cloud9.net
Cc: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Steel Braded Fuel Lines and Fittings

As long as the proper hose is used and clamps that
don't cut into it, the stock setup is pretty safe at
least down there. The high pressure part is the scary
part. Once again, though, as long as proper hose and
clamps are used (and proper lengths) it's pretty safe
for the first twenty+ years! One safety feature that
could be added is an inertia switch to shut off the
fuel pump in case of harsh impact. The valve at the
tank outlet is a good idea, but I think I would go a
stel further and add a drain. I suppose with the valve
plus a threaded connection on the line, you've pretty
much got all you need there. You might look at the
fuel line parts that Summit Racing has in their online
catalog as well as possibly Aircraft Spruce. You may
want to keep the rigid steel lines but with fittings
and there are a number of companies that will build
them for you custom - if you're okay with having the
bus down for a little while, you can send them your
pipe sections and they will build new with appropriate
fittings out of stainless steel if you want - and
they'll fit back into the retaining clips just like
stock! (They advertise in Street Rodder mag.)

Okay, I just re-read and saw it's a '72, but maybe
some folks with FI will be interested also! They'll
still have to come up with hose connections at the
filter, pump and pressure regulator though, as well as
all the injector pieces I referred to above!-BaH

--- johnvi(-at-)cloud9.net wrote:
 List-
   I am once again trying to improve the fuel lines
 on my 1972 VW Bus.   
 I think the line fron the fuel tank to the engine is
 poorly designed  
 and is a fire hazard.  I would like to run a steel
 braded line from a  
 fitting on the tank to the fuel pump with a shut off
 valve at the  
 tank.  These lines would have threaded ends on them.
  Has anyone done  
 this?  I think I can get the parts from a boat
 supply store if I knew  
 exactly what to get.
 My question is:  What kind if thread is on the
 fitting on the bottom  
 of the tank where the line now connects?  I don't
 want to take it out  
 without having a new fitting ready to replace it. 
 Is it what they  
 call "pipe thread"?  metric?
 
 Thanks for your help.
 John Ingram
 72 Bus


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
