From: "John" <vanagonvw(-at-)gmail.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 19 Aug 2007 17:24:40 -0600
Subject: Replacing one head

Hi folks,

For those who read most of the lists, this may be familiar, but I am in
search of mental stability, and direction. Hope no one minds.

Got an 81 air cooled. No compression on cyl #2. Leak down leads me to a
dropped/shifted exhaust seat. Cannot afford much of anything, right now, so
I bought a pair of heads from an on-line source, and one of them, will do,
as far as I am concerned. No money for a shop to work em over. They were
running on the donor van, when it was wrecked, so I will go with that, and
just need to get the van ambulatory for a little while.

The head of choice is an AMC, and looks pretty darn new. My problem is, I
don't understand the nuances of the Type 4, so when I stare at the head, I
don't see any "shim" cast into the cumbustion chamber, as I was told there
would be on the ratwell web page. It has no shims, and so I do not know how
to proceed. Its not like I have the engine that this head came off of, to
measure and decide on shims, or whatever else I need to have.

How do I know how much to shim? Do I need to shim? What's the difference
between a shim and a gasket, in real life, not the lab?  I have just been
told of a possible shim under the cylinder as well, that might alter the
amount of shimming required at the head, but I had no intention of doing
anything more than just swapping the head. Please don't tell me to do lots
of other stuff while I am in there :-) I can't right now.

At the moment, I am depressed, as I was ready to just deal with "popping'
the old head out, and sticking on the new one, but the more I hear, the more
I get the impression that this is wrong, even tho some folks have said that
they have done just that.

On the big V style engines I am familiar with, this is a no brainer, but the
Type 4 has be psyched out, and I am not at all sure what to do next, and if
I actually have all the pertinent information I need to do the job. It
sounds to me like there are some serious issues with shims and "stackup"
(for lack of a better term) that could make this job undoable. The more I
learn, the more I wonder what else I don't know...

Comments about shims, AMC heads, and generally, what the heck else I ought
to know about mating a different head to the existing cylinders, would be
eagerly accepted...

Thanks a lot,

John
