From: Shad Henderson <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 21 Aug 2007 09:16:58 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] hypothesis

Hi All, 

I do not see the point of owning a car that isn't rare as hen's teeth
and *not* driving it.   Sure, I wouldn't drive a Tucker Torpedo if I
owned one.  Especially on these crazy roads.  But there's only a select
few left in the world.  

But something common as indigestion, like a nice old Mustang or a Shelby
Cobra?  You betcha.   Sure, I wouldn't drive it in the snow, or in New
York city, where it's bound to get hit at least 4 times.  But I'd take
it to work on nice days, and out & about on the weekends.  (oot and
aboot for those that live way far north ;)    

My Bus?  She gets driven all over the place.  Usually my daily driver.
I had to loan it to a relative here recently. It was either that or let
an inexperienced rider ride my 1.7 liter
asphalt-destroying-neck-breaking-sphincter-shrinking motorcycle.  Let me
tell ya, it  was a damn tough decision. That bike is screaming death on
a stick to a newbie rider. He got the bus.  I don't feel *too* horrible
about it, since I'm in the process of rebuilding an engine for the bus.
But I still worry about it and remind him every other day to make sure
he checks the oil and doesn't run the head temp over 350-360 degrees.
That keeps him from driving *too* fast in it. 

Usually, the bus hauls me, the wife, our 3 large dogs (about 225 lbs
worth of 'em), plus all our clothes & supplies to Daytona about once a
month or so.  300 miles round trip, and I enjoy every mile of it.

No, I doubt my bus will ever be a garage maiden.  She'll end up pretty
when I'm done, but never relegated to sulking in the garage, waiting for
a weekend without rain.  

Shad H. 


On Mon, 2007-08-20 at 20:46 -0400, dan(-at-)geer.org wrote:
My intuition tells me that folks like us here that
own Type 2 VWs use them a lot more than folks that
own other brands of 30-45 year old cars.  More daily
drivers and fewer garage museums, in other words.
Like when do you ever see another 35 year old anything
that isn't pristine but is instead hauling a well pump
or a dozen beehives or 300# of onions or more weight
in tools than the driver weighs?  Farm pickups that
ain't registered but can still run fence rows, maybe.
