From: "Chandler Thompson" <chandler(-at-)prestigefarms.com>
To: "Mike Soultanian" <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
Cc: <TYPE2(-at-)TYPE2.COM>
Date: Thu, 15 Feb 2007 13:30:55 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] Help w/ my '78...

Next time I will be much more specific.  I really appreciate everyone's help
but to clear things up...

I have used a spark plug tester to test the wire out of the coil, all 4 wires
from the distributor, and have pulled all four plugs and watched them fire
while the engine was turning.  Everything checks out OK and all four sparks
look good.  So unless my plugs are somehow not being grounded when I seat them
in the cylinder I am getting spark.

I did the screwdriver to the intake flapper thing and can hear the pump
running strong.  When I pulled one of the plugs today it was damp with fuel.
So as far as I can tell I have fuel and spark.  However, and I have tried this
50 times, when I spray starting fluid into the intake it has never turned over
on it's own.  Never.  Is it possible that my plugs are somehow not being
grounded?  I can't think of any other explanation, I have seen them spark
outside of the engine so as long as they are grounded they must be sparking
inside the engine, right?

Several people have recommended I check for vacuum leaks.  My vacuum lines
were in horrible shape and I've swapped some of them out but not all of them.
Can someone confirm or deny that a vacuum leak would cause the engine to not
fire at all, even with the introduction of starting fluid?

Also, I am pretty sure I have hydraulic lifters and remember reading somewhere
that something may need to be done to them manually if the bus sits for a long
time.  Any chance that has something to do with it?

If anyone is afraid to offer an obvious solution please don't hold back, I am
as green as they come (I don't even know what a lifter is, so if something
does need to be done to it I'm in trouble) and could very easily be missing
something easily fixed.

I've printed out everyone's replies and have a long list of things to check
this weekend, my top priorities right now are replacing the rest of the vacuum
lines, pulling off the valve covers to visually see what's going on in the
chambers, and checking my distributor to make sure it's not off 180 degrees.

BTW it has been said that I may find some nice people out there willing to
work for beer.  Beer I have, a lot of money I don't so if anyone is in the
Raleigh, NC area and wouldn't mind taking a look sometime that would be
awesome.

Thanks again to everyone!

chandler



----------------------------------------------------------------
John Rogers wrote:
> Cam timing ?

That sure would suck if it was a cam timing problem as the only way to
fix that is to break down the engine.  Let's hope it's not that... we
can kinda rule that out because he's getting good compression so at
least it's in good enough time to close the valves at the correct time.

Chandler,
you can verify fuel flow by pulling off the air filter, turn on the key
and stick and screwdriver into the intake to push the flapper vane.  The
fuel pump should start running.

Here's a test for you.  You can check that you're spark plugs are firing
by spraying a quick puff of starter fluid into the intake and then crank
over the car.  If you're getting spark, the car should kick over and run
for about a couple rotations.  This would be a nice confirmation that
you're ignition is working.  You might also want to try a spark plug
tester to see if the spark plugs are working, and/or take a plug out,
plug it into its wire, and hold it against a piece of metal and see if
it sparks..

Mike
