From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 17 Sep 2002 21:27:05 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Restoring front beam and greasing it!

--part1_64.255cbd0b.2ab93069_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 9/17/2002 10:28:51 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
Paul.FAUTLEY(-at-)dds.delphiauto.com writes:
> First I will start with the greasing part as thats easy - when I grease 
> should I first be wiping off the excess grease that is pushed out of the 
> seal or should I wipe it off after filling them up?

Hi Paul,
Kind of depends on wether you or the DPO greased the front beam, link pins, 
and king pins at least every 3,000 miles or six months which ever came first. 
 Make sure to have the front of the bus jacked up till the front tires are 
just off the ground to allow grease to push into several of the king pins
  If not done then the grease is going to be old (Making it thin and soupy.), 
dirty, and possibly water filled.  If so you will have to pump grease and 
keep wiping up the nasty old stuff till new grease flows out.
  If the greasing is kept up often you more than likely only need to pump a 
little grease in before clean new grease from last time pushes out the dirty 
grease nearest the joints.

  I have a large build up > of grease and am not sure as to whether it should 
> be there and I can't find anything in any of the manuals to say whether I 
> should wipe or not.

Caked on grease should be removed with a tool like a screwdriver carefully as 
to not scrape the paint off the front beam.

> I am considering removing my front beam to restore it, as the floor above it 
> needs cleaning up as the cover plate is missing and if the beam is off then 
> it will make the job easier.
> What is involved in restoring the beam, should I just sandblast it and get 
> it painted or powdercoated?  Are there any bushes that I should replace 
> whilst it is off?  Is there anything else I should consider replacing at 
> the front end whilst I do it?

If you are going to sandblast, paint or better yet get it powder coated 
depends a bit on which year front beam you have.  It will have to be 
completely dissassembled and degreased.  Check your VW bus shop manual for 
your year front beam for more info.  As for replacing, it mostly depends on 
what is bent or worn out.  Do make sure the front beam is straight before 
restoring it and replace all rubber seals while it is apart.  If you do not 
rebuild it for now, do take apart all the link pins and clean out old caked 
up grease and clean out the drain holes in the outer cap plugs.  More often 
than not these drain holes are plugged up and this does not allow grease to 
flow through about half the length of each link pin!!!
Eric&Barb

--part1_64.255cbd0b.2ab93069_boundary--
