To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 3 Sep 2002 11:41:39 -0500
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 69 NADA $3500?

here in OK they asked ME what the value was. actually, i think they asked
me what i paid for it and that is how they figured my tax/fees.

NADA has always been conservative with these cars so what you said is
suprising, but there are other places you can find more accurate values.
there is a black book  that, i believe, is printed by NADA, but it is a
collector/classic car values as opposed to the blue "used vehicle" value
book. when i was in a wreck and trying to prove my car was worth more
than they wanted to pay me for (65 beetle with sunroof) i tried using the
black book price and the CPI guide (cars of particular interest) to prove
it was worth 4500 instead of what blue NADA said (something like 1200).
it was going to cost more than that to fix, so i was trying to get more.
anyway, THEY used blue book because it was in THEIR best interests to
show a LOW value but if they were trying to get money out of ME, they
would have sworn by the others. it all depends on what you need to prove.


there are also different prices based on what condition the vehicle is
in. if your car is in poor condition, even the collector book will give
it a lower value. i believe the CPI guide is also based on region. a car
from CA will be worth more because it is based on how much people are
willing to pay for those cars in that region. if people arent willing to
pay $50 for a car in your area, the CPI will reflect that. i think that
is how it was explained to me.

my attorney also suggested i get the car appraised (there is a place here
that would do that for $200). i know, sounds stupid to try to get a high
appraisal on an already wrecked car, but they said the appraiser can take
into account current damage and can tell what condition it was in before
the collision.

you may be able to find blue book at the library, black book and CPI
should be available at book/magazine store. find these, copare their
prices to what the DMV told you and take it to them if necessary to show
them how much you feel your bus is worth.

wavin with a broken beetle in the driveway next to my new awesome 70
westy (which just got back from it's first big trip),
chris (tulsavwchic)
70 westy
65 euro beetle with sunroof


On Tue, 03 Sep 2002 15:14:54 +0000 "Bus Gypsy" <busgypsy(-at-)msn.com> writes:
... Just went to register my bus here in the lovely state of Vermont
(sarcasm) I 
> am told my registration fees are 250 dollars! They are telling me  that
the 
> NADA book value on a 69 kombi is 3500 bucks!  Is she serious?  I  would
only 
> pay that kinda dough for one from west coast in sweet condition.   Mine
I 
> bought for 500 with no motor, and stripped interior! I did not even 
register 
> it as a westie even though I installed everything but the pop top.  But
3500? 
>   Seems a little off.  Any comments?

