Date: Tue, 03 Sep 2002 16:31:54 -0700
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Adventure w/ Ted

Or, 5 1/2 hours from San Jose to Sacramento.
Last Friday I hopped into Ted, my '71 Adventurewagen, for a long
anticipated first camping experience.  I bought him last spring from a
reseller of donated vehicles with a little under 83,000 miles on the
odometer.  I am pretty sure this is actual mileage from the look of
condition of several parts, such as the window rubber & pedal pads.  It
had been off the road since 1992 due to a severely bent tie rod.  It ran
and stopped reasonably well when I got it but needed a good going
through before I would trust it on a trip.  A couple weeks ago I
completed that maintenance by replacing the master cylinder, slave
cylinders, rubber lines, and tires.  While I was at it I got the rims
powder coated.

Due to some issues at work I didn't get on the road until 12:30 and I
hit the highway just as the holiday traffic was getting into full
swing.  The only saving grace was my recently installed stereo system.
I finally hit Sacramento at about 6pm which meant that the campsite on
the far side of Folsom Lake was still over an hour away.  The winding
roads up to the campsite were negotiated smoothly and without delay due
to the new tires and strong engine and I arrived just as the sun was
setting over the lake.  Time for a beer, and just hanging out until my
daughters arrived from their own battles with traffic and bad
directions.  That's one problem I didn't have, because I found my own
rather than relying on some park dept. bureaucrat with no clue of where
we were headed.

Saturday we all headed back around the lake to rent a wave runner for
the day.  That high roof sure came in handy for giving us a shady spot
to lounge while others were out on the wave runner.  Around mid
afternoon we noticed a growing cloud of smoke coming from across the
lake and we started to worry about our campsite.  So I went over to the
park people who assured me that the fire was much further away than it
seemed to me.  It did get close enough though, over the next couple
days, to briefly threaten our primary route home.

By Monday morning several people in the group were eager to get back to
their TVs and computer screens so we packed up early.  But the weekend
was very satisfying to me and my wife.  It confirmed that buying Ted was
a good move.  The Adventurewagen has several features that make it nicer
than the '71 Westy that we had when the kids were little.  The bed is
more comfortable, it has more storage, and it has a 2 burner stove.  We
didn't get to test out the refrigerator yet though because the original
second battery was no good and I haven't gotten around to replacing it
and verifying the isolator works.

One more thing I'd like to pass on is that I'm glad I rejected all of
the tire advice that has been bantered around over the last several
months.  In reading the different articles on the Type2 site the
conclusion I came to was that the tire diameter was an important factor
with the correct size being slightly over 26 inches.  That makes a
195R14, with its 82% aspect ratio, almost correct while a 195/75R14 is
too small.  I also discovered in Without Guesswork that on the earlier
work trucks the 195R14 was not used.  A slightly larger tire was
recommended so in my search for the perfect tire for my Adventurewagen,
which is 400 lbs. heavier than a passenger Bus, I decided on an LT
205/75R14 from Firestone.  My experience this weekend on the winding
roads above Sacramento confirmed for me that the extra 1/4 inch of tread
I gained was worth it.

Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org

