From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "Rick Taylor" <BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 4 Sep 2002 00:23:16 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Question for you'ze guys


> Would that be tent up, or tent down?

LOL.. What a sight that would be! But I'm sure it's been done.
Thanks for the answers, all.
Now I am wondering if I should pinch myself, or knock on wood. Because as
near as I can figure, we're getting about 26 MPG, maybe a bit more, on the
highway, with the Mexican-built 1600 engine, which runs like it is charmed.
It is just about eight months old, as I recall and does a good little clip
every day as a daily driver. This is on a '71 T2 "transporter" with no extra
equipment. I am wondering that for all the flap about fuel injection, that
the late 70's Westy's don't seem to do so well on gas. Sure, they have all
the camping gear, but it's not really so much more in weight and wind
resistance, is it?
Today I took a little "test drive" on a '78 Sunroof T2 with a 2L FI engine.
This is the one I mentioned the other day for $800 obo. I spotted it in a
local neighborhood. That thing sure has a lot of pep and power! Good brakes,
too. Unfortuneately, there is an exhaust leak, so it won't smog. I heard it
and when I asked about it the guy pointed out a hole in the muffler. You
could feel the exhaust coming through under pressure. There is also a slight
sound like a marble rolling around in a coffee can. I think that it could be
coming from the squirrel cage area.. probably a fan bearing or alternator
bearing. Any idea what sort of trouble that may represent? Other than that,
it seems to shift well, revs up real quick (responsive) and has a lot of
power. This seems to be a real good engine. He says it has about 87,000
original miles on it, but who the heck knows (?). Anyway if seeing is
believeing, that bus has quite a bit of life in it yet. I didn't take it up
on the freeway because the fuel guage didn't show any gas and I wasn't
interested enough to go put fuel in it. But in first, second and third it
showed me what it had and I was actually rather impressed.
The present owner is a construction worker who can turn a wrench. He
replaced the fuel lines to the injectors and a vacuum line, some of which
were leaking. The vehicle had been sitting somewhere for awhile apparently,
and I think he got it real cheap, just turning it over to make a little
quick money. It wasn't quite dinner time yet and he'd already put away a few
beers, I think. Very casual guy. I think he would come down to $650 or $700
if he saw cash.
I would be interested in any thoughts on that little marble-y noise. I don't
think that this is normal, but then again doesn't sound like anything real
serious. Hmmm..   Jan B


