From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 5 Feb 2004 07:41:23 -0800
Subject: Distributer, schematic request (long)

Well I found out what was wrong with my bus yesterday.  I drive a
76, and for months and months it would run great and then when the
motor was good and hot(usually after highway driving up large
hills/mountains) it wouldn't idle unless I was playing footsie with
the accelerator pedle.

This drove me nuts.  I checked/replaced all vacuum lines and temp
sensor II and I took apart my AFM and checked that out thoroughly
and had it overhauled. Everything was fine,... yet when I would
drive it more than 4 miles it would start to idle choppy, if it
idled at all...

So I finally broke down and gave my trusty/honest mechanic a call
and he had me bring it by,.. this is what happened.

Points were way off.  But we had already changed and adjusted those
points a month ago.  Bad already?  yup.  lubed them, adjusted them,
and drove on them for 1 hour.  Idled great,.. then the problem
reared it's ugly head again..  (insert colorful explative here).

Drove back to the shop and threw myself upon the mercy of my
trusty/honest mechanic(Bill Trafton in Portland Oregon, shameless
plug I know,... sorry).  So we took another look at the points and
they were off by a very very large amount.  So we set them and
checked them and tested them again.  Then we let the car idle for 15
minutes and then it repeated the same trouble.  Time to dig into the
distributer.

Turns out that the plate in my distributer (the original one) is so
badly worn the that shaft that the rotor moves on had some lateral
play.  (once again, insert colorful profanity here).  What I know
about distributers is rather minimal.  I change out caps and can set
points and swap out rotors and cables, but that's about where it
stops.  I'm still pretty ignorant when it comes to my distributer.
What I was told was that this 'plate' was a part of the actual
distributer and that it was badly worn.  I was told that years ago
these plates could be purchased and that the distributers then were
usually rebuilt when this trouble occurred.  I was also told that
this plate was no longer available and that these days people
usually bought new distributers or changed to an electronic
distribution system (pertronix or some such animal).

What is the number on my distributer you may ask?  No idea.  If I
find that out I will post it if you want to know.  I have not felt
brave enough to remove the distributer from the block yet just so I
can read the tiny numbers on the backside.

 I tried the easy convenient approach of asking my mechanic what
model of distributer I had, but he didn't hear me as his employee
fired off a ratchet at that exact moment and this combined with the
cacophony of the air compressor that it was attatched to made
everyone in the shop a mute for a few seconds.  Lots of moving lips
but no audible sound, save that of the ratchet.  Anyway, when the
noise died down I thought that I would be clever and draw off of
some of the info that I had gained from this list.  I asked my
mechanic if my distributer was of the .009 variety.  He smiled and
said that the curve on an .009 was innappropriate for the bus motor
and then told me that I had a stock distributer.  Do I know what the
stock distributer for the 2 liter FI Federal motor was in 76?
nope...

At any rate, out of my two buses, this bus is the one that I really
don't care if it stays stock or not, so it is likely that I may go
to an electronic system.

However, since the discovery of this new problem, I am realizing
just how large of a gap in my vehicle knowledge there is in the
inner workings and design of a 'stock' distributer for a 76 F.I.
Federal Bus motor.  So even though I have more or less resigned to
going to a different distribution system, it's killing me that I
don't know about the distributer that I currently have.

So after all of the email bloat I am finally asking this:
Does anybody have a schematic that shows the design of a VW
distributer?  I know that since I don't know the precise variety
that I have that an exact schematic is an unrealistic request, so I
figure that any distributer blue print that shows this 'plate' would
be helpful.  I must understand this issue that I am having.  Heck, I
need to know it just in case my other 'stock' bus has this issue in
the future.  It's time to learn about the inner workings of a VW
distributer.  Anyone out there happen to have a site that I can
reference or some holy grail of information that I can access?  Any
and all input is certainly welcome.

Also, what is the preferred electronic distribution conversion on
the market these days?  I see a lot of pertronix adds and read a lot
about that system in this forum.  Certainly there are others though.
What do you all think of them?

Seann Stafford
76' T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
76' T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
