Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Thu, 5 Feb 2004 11:50:59 -0800
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Good price for tires in the SFBA

On Feb 5, 2004, at 10:47 AM, Richard Atwell wrote:

...ok, digressing from Bus content a little, but... :-)

> The last time I tried to get a tire alignment at Wheel Works on the 
> other
> car they only wanted to replace the tires. It's a low mileage driver 
> but
> their little trick to it read the date of manufacturer on the side of 
> the
> wheel and tell you the tires are worn out or too old regardless of 
> when you
> bought them or how much tread is left.

I had an amusing experience while driving through Utah this past summer 
in my wife's Accord.  Richard has seen our Accord -- it's showing its 
wear (driven cross-country a number of times, and even stolen in 
Manhattan once, while my wife was in college), but now it's a 
seldom-driven-parked-in-the-garage kind of car.  Tires are Michelin, 
about 3 years old, but don't have much mileage on them.  Most mileage 
on them has come from a few trips to LA and this road trip were were on 
at the time this story takes place.

Weather was hot.  We'd just spent a couple of days hiking at Zion and 
Bryce Canyon, and were heading to SLC to see Phish.

Stopped for gas and to stretch our legs a bit.  While I was pumping my 
gas, the station attendant whistled for my attention and pointed out 
that one of my tires was a little low.  Sure enough, a tad low.  "Wheel 
it on over here, and I'll air those up for you."  Hey, great, I hate 
getting brake dust all over my fingers!

...this is when the guy starts into his "wow, when's the last time you 
replaced these tires?" spiel, apparently blind to the fact that there 
is still a good amount of tread left on them, and absolutely no sign of 
cracking.  Now, granted, the wear pattern indicated that they're a 
little over-due for rotation, but I have probably 20K left on these 
tires.

I was enjoying my little stretch break, so I let him tell his story, 
put it up on the lift to "show me the damage", etc.  He gave me a quote 
for some outrageous amount for tires not nearly as good as I had on the 
car already, and then iced the cake with "y'know, with this hot 
weather, you don't want to have one of these tires blow on you while 
you're doin' 80 down the highway..."

Well, our stretch break was over, so I thanked him for his time and 
suggested that he try to polish up his scare-tactic sales pitch, and 
then we hit the road again.

While it was kind of funny to let that guy waste all that time trying 
to sell me tires, what's really scary is how many people probably fall 
for it.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
