Date: Thu, 5 Feb 2004 16:06:06 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re:  Distributer, schematic request (long)

Seann, and Esteemed Listees:

Having seen some of the replies, may I suggest that once you determine
the dizzy number (or not), hit the excellent dizzy database found in the
T2 Library, and see what's listed there for the replacement base plate
assembly; you know, the schaliza-ma-bobble (tm) that the points are
attached.  I'm betting from experience "many" different vacuum-style
dizzies use the same plate, ergo, any suitable junked out vacuum-style
dizzy may well be able to be persuaded to cough up it's plate, provided
it's in decent enough shape.  Generous hint:  see any local swaps and
the go-fast types who tend to discard the vac dizzies in favor of
go-fast dizzies - all you care about is the plate, the can may be hosed,
OR you may get really lucky and score 'zactly what you need!  Suitable
vac dizzies for parts (or whole ones for use) can be scored for very
little dough, probably even less dough if the Fiendishly Evil, Insanely
Complex and Patently Unreliable vac can is kaput...

The only one I've ever seen worn to the point of uselessness had
suffered from a profound lack of lubrication between the two plates; a
"problem" easy enough to fix, no?  IIRC the base plate assembly is
staked in place by a couple of punch marks, plus held by some of the
external hardware machine screws.  A smart and patient fellow with a
half-round file can move enough of the displaced metal to free the plate
for extraction.  A "really" smart and impatient fellow with a
Dremel-type tool can do it in about 1/10 the time ;-)  Lube up the two
plates, clean up all below the plate and lube it up, put it all back
together...  Start saving your pennies so's you can get rid of those
yucky points and condensor for once and for all.  I like Comp-u-fire -
been using them for 10-12 years now; make sure you get the one for the
vac dizzy.  You will need to shorten the rotor in a Type 4 dizzy to make
up for the thickness of the magnet wheel, else the rotor will hit the
dizzy cap.  Mr. Rotor, meet Ms Sandpaper.  Ms Sandpaper, meet Mr. Rotor.
Get bizzy!  The only one I've had go "toes-up" was one that I personally
toasted with my own filthy mitts by hooking up a 914 engine loom to the
relay board while the board was energized.  Memo to self:  ALWAYS turn
off the ignition before reinstalling the loom.  Can't say that I've ANY
good luck with P*rtr*n*x - the first one I bought to replace the
accidentally toasted Comp-u-fire lasted 15 seconds in service, it's
replacement lasted 15 minutes in service.  It went back for a
Comp-u-fire that's been in the dizzy ever since.  Others will tell of
their own outstanding stories regarding them - my two are less than
stellar...  YMMV.

Toodles

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
