From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 6 Dec 2001 21:50:22 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Time to start replacing glass seals

In a message dated 12/5/2001 5:43:53 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com writes:

<<  Anybody out there have some positive experiences and/or links they can 
share
 or point me to??>>

Hi Rich,
If the bus is your daily driver you might just want to do one at a time!  
Though if you can have your bus not driving for up to a week doing all three 
at once makes it easier to do them assembly style, which takes less time 
overall.  Just is more intense all at once.
1.  Cut the old rubber seals on the interior side to allow the glass to be 
pushed out without cracking.  Having a helper to catch the glass is wise!
2.  Wire wheel, acid, sandpaer all the rust out of there.  Weld up holes.  
Then zinc primer, rattle can paint it and then if there is any areas that 
need it to sand lightly and spot puddy.
3.  Use a small amount of tar in the seal where the glas mounts and paint 
lightly the frame the rubber seats into the body.  Wrap mid sized automotive 
wire with the rubber insulation or smooth weed eater cord around the seal in 
the groove the body lip goes into on the outerside of the seal.  Knot the 
wire/cord loosely at center bottom.  Have a helper carefully press the 
seal/window assembly into the body frame while you keep the wire/cord ends 
into the interior of the VW. 
4.  Once the seal/window are pushed into the body frame as far as it will go 
pull the wire/cord slightly upwards and into the VW, which wil flip the seal 
over the lip of the body frame.  Make sure the helper keeps spead out fingers 
and hand pressure on the glass from the outside.  While you work the ends of 
the wire/cord as evenly up and to center top of the window.  Then clean up 
excess tar with WD-40 or hand goop of non-abrasive type.  Tar is the only 
sealing material we know of that not only seals, but reseals and replels 
rust.   Eric&Barb
