From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 7 Dec 2001 18:06:04 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: drafty front floor  :(

As maybe one or two others out there have noticed, the front floors of our 
beloved buses tend to get water damage. (No snide remarks from the desert 
rats please).  Yes I can replace my windsheild seal, but what if the damage 
has already been done?  Especially on my 61 15 window, with those windsheilds 
that open up, oh so nifty in the summer, but they are not so great in winter 
(I put a regular one in for the rainy season, guess I'll just swap them out 
twice a year), and years of being in western Washington means I bought a bus 
with holes in the front floor.   Well, I still haven't found another 61 15 
window in better shape, let alone for sale since I bought this one 7 years 
ago, and I am kind of attached to it now.   But the accident when someone 
tried to pass when I was turning left mushed in the dogleg and the floor, 
making a larger hole now.  When the mat falls into the hole behind my left 
leg there is a significant breeze blowing from underneath, not so great.  I 
have trained myself to step over the hole rather than in it, but still.  With 
the small heat tube the volume of heat could be better,  the drafts just suck 
the warmth away.

Ya, I could get those repro or dig for NOS floor pieces and replace it right, 
but in this case that also involves dogleg replacement, - both sides as the 
other side is rusty and maybe the nose, and jeez I am just not ready for that 
yet.  It would also mean I can't drive the bus in the meantime. Actually I 
have collected lots of nice pieces for this bus including perfect original 
doglegs and floor and nose, but the work.  eek.  I am afraid of taking things 
apart, they might not get back together you know.

My solution:  A piece of flat metal cut and bent and hammered into shape.  It 
fits under the floormat and over the hole.  Has a gap for the high beam 
switch and its wires, a gap for the clutch pedal, an indent for the steering 
column, and is bent up a little up the hump the seat sits on.   Had to fine 
tune it with a hammer and grinder and file, and is hidden pretty much by the 
floor mat.   Took bus for a test drive, and the draft is gone!!!  YAY!!!  

Some people may say this is hokey, but hey it works.
