From: "Justin L. Smith" <nikkies(-at-)charter.net>
To: "Bill M<" <thegreenwesty(-at-)netscape.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 15 Sep 2003 13:10:35 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] removing campmobile equipment

Bill,

Your directions were spot-on.  I completed the removal yesterday
in about four hours (by myself)... in an effort to get this into
the archives, I'll add my suggestions:

1- Part of the 'outside utility covers' is a metal plate that
acts as a restrictor for the sink drain.  Four simple phillips
screws keeps it attached to the underside of the bus - it must be
removed in order to pull the drain through the floor when
removing the sink/stove as a unit.

2- Removing the water tank is difficult.  The vent and the pump
motor are grad-threaded, and you have to pull hard in a tight
space.  Pull the vent tube UP from the top of the sink space
while keeping a good grip/leverage on the water tank.  You'll
have to push the water tank up at first to give you enough
purchase on the vent tube.

3- Be careful of the old spade connections on the inverter and
the sink light.  Age and fumbly hands tends to make the wire pull
out of the spades: bad.

4- Removing the passenger seat.  Don't make the same mistake I
did and remove the four nuts holding the swivel pedestal to the
well before sliding the seat OFF the track.  To do so, push the
seat-front lever down and pull the seat forward until it stops.
Now look at the joint/hinge on the side of the seat closest the
driver.  There is a small metal tab that, when depressed
simultaneous to the seat-front lever, will allow you to remove
the seat body from the swivel.  THEN remove the four bolts.  With
a screwdriver, bend the tab holding the swivel lever to the
swivel mount allowing you to remove the lever.

That's all, off the top of my head.  Not too bad a procedure.  I
did, however, discover: sixties/seventies coins; unburned
incense; crochet needles; bag of curry (no question, it really
WAS curry); etc.

Cheers to Bill!

Justin L. Smith
'78 Westy Deluxe "Petunia"
Augusta, GA
nikkies(-at-)charter.net
