Date: Mon, 15 Sep 2003 10:40:53 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Baker <harmony(-at-)buszen.com>
To: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, type2 list
Subject: Bus-n-Gruven trip report

Rolled into the campground early in the day on Friday.
Had some much needed quiet time hanging out with
michelle, Traci, Kevin, and Joel before the crowds
started moving in. Seems we were sharing the facility
with about 300 youth ages 13-19 years who were there
for a music show.  Ahh, nothing like a drunk & stoned
15 year-old to warm your heart with cheerful thoughts!
As the evening approached a few more buses started
rolling in. But there was one obvious absentee. Where
is Frank Biffath? Normally we expect frank to be one
of the first arrivals at a campout.  Just before dark
we see Frank's familiar blue and white 66 camper
rolling into the campground. But, wait a minute, I
don't remember the "HIPYBUS" being that tall! Maybe
frank has installed some sort of suspension higher-ing
kit on the bus to protest all the guys who lower their
buses. D'OH!! Hold on, HIPYBUS is arriving on a
flatbed tow truck. How lame! Has Frank turned the
HIPYBUS into some sort of trailer queen with a paid
driver to deliver him to the campouts!? No, turns out
he just broke down out on the interstate, and being
the trooper that he is, he had it towed to the event
instead home! Luckily, it just turned out to be dead
coil.
Had some good chatting and drinking with the usual OVT
suspects around the campfire and then a good acoustic
guitar jam with Terry until about 2:30 am. 
By the time I went to bed, the drummers from the other
event at the campground were in full force and I got
exactly NO sleep on Friday night.
Just as the drummers stopped about 6:30 am, I realized
I was awake for the day.
After a good FMBC burrito breakfast and a quick trip
into town, Frank and Dwayne had a flash of genius
inspiration (or maybe it was some sort of bad acid
flashback) and created the game we now love and know
as Bunghole. If you did not experience this game, I
will not try to explain, you'll just have to see it at
the next event. Kai gave a pretty good description,
but I do want to make one correction to her report: It
was Mr. Chuck Baird who earned the dubious title of
Un-disputed Bunghole Champion of the World (despite
Kittie's repeated attempts to knock him off).  All
those years of Fire-Man picnics and horse shoe
tournaments must have given him an advantage!
Retired relatively early Saturday (11:00 pm) and
actually slept! Either I was so tired from no sleep
the night before or the drummers were a little less
energetic than the night before, I don't know which.
Anyway, we had a good time despite our less-than
courteous co-habitants, and we will be back next year,
let's just plan it on a different weekend than
Teen-stock! ;^)

=====
Peace, John Baker
1971 Westy
1972 Deluxe
http://www.buszen.com

"So we got into the red VW microbus with the shovels and the rakes and the implements of destruction and we headed on to the police officer's station..."
