From: "Jay Brown" <jayb(-at-)coedsportswear.com>
To: <paulnather(-at-)qwest.net>
Cc: "'type2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 16 Sep 2003 09:31:11 -0400
Subject: RE:  replacing fuel lines

Hi Paul,

Replacing the fuel lines on a dual carb '72 is a very simple and
straightforward procedure.  Be sure that you have the proper metric hose
with the braided cloth cover, a new fuel filter and an ample supply (total
of 10 if I recall correctly) of stainless steel hose clamps.

The tools you will need are:  1) Screwdrivers to remove old clamps and
install new ones.  2) A couple of fuel line clamp pliers (available for less
than $5.00ea at the autoparts store) to clamp off the flow of fuel.  3) A
sharp utility knife to cut any crusty old hoses off connections if they
won't let go easily.

You will want to run your gas tank down to as close to empty as possible.
If you can't do that, drain off the gas into a spare gas container to avoid
getting soaked by fuel as much as possible.  Jacking up the passenger side
rear wheel will help to get the gas away from the outlet side of the tank
once it is almost empty.

I generally start under the bus at the supply end and work my way toward the
carbs.  Before starting, I put a pair of fuel line pliers on the fuel line
just below the tee coming from the carbs.  This will keep the fuel that is
in these lines from flowing out at you when you remove the other end.

Cut a section of fuel line to go from the gas tank outlet to the fuel pump
and put a fuel line plier on it a couple inches from the end.  Attach this
to the fuel tank outlet and put a hose clamp on it.  Some people prefer to
install their fuel filter in this location since it is well away from the
heat of the engine.  I mount mine high on the firewall inside the engine
compartment to protect it from road debris.  Either location should be fine
with the low psi that carbeureted engines work at as long as the inlet and
outlet are securely clamped.

 Move on to the next section of hose being sure to clamp both ends with the
stainless steel hose clamps for safety.  When you get to the area where the
fuel lines go thru the firewall into the engine compartment you will want to
inspect the grommet that protects the fuel line.  If it is damaged or
missing, you might consider doing something like the firewall fix that I did
on my bus: http://www.geocities.com/vwcamper72/FuelLineGrommet.html.

Continue on replacing one section at a time, clamping each connection until
you are done.  Once everything is secure, go underneath again and release
the pliers from the hose coming from the tank outlet.  Get in and start her
up.  You should be safe for another two years or so until you get to repeat
the procedure again.

If you are running original Solex carbs you might also consider safety
wiring the brass inlet barbs to the body of the carbs.  You can find more
info about that here: http://type2.com/rvanness/safetwis.htm.

Good Luck!
Jay Brown
Newmarket, NH
'72 Riviera
'85 Westfalia


Date: Mon, 15 Sep 2003 19:02:19 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "paul" <paulnather(-at-)qwest.net>
Subject: replacing fuel lines
Message-ID: <000801c37be5$cc1dad10$0800000a(-at-)pauln>

Anyone know of any detailed info on replacing fuel lines in a dual carb bus?
'72 to be exact.  I've found info on fuel injected engines but that's about
it.  My Muir manual doesn't help much.

Thanks

Paul Nather
