From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2003 08:04:12 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] 71 Bus appears to be overheating

Well, I did some checking yesterday, and found that #4 sparkplug (which is
where I have my CHT sender installed) was loose.

When I first tried to tighten it, it kept turning and did not seem to want
to lighten up (as in, stripped cyl. head threads).  I took it out and saw
evidence of combustion gas leakage on the plug threads (black stuff), put it
back in and then it seemed to tighten up OK, although not as tight as the
other plugs.  I'm guessing that a). I never fully "crushed" the CHT sensor
or b). the threads are really stripped and I need to do something about
that.  I'm gonna try installing the plug without the CHT sensor to see if
the crush is the issue, then go for a test drive.

Anyway, it makes sense to me that the observed CHT gauge behaviour (i.e.,
higher temperatures and more rapid temperature fluctuations) would result
from the plug being loose as 1) it came on rather suddenly, 2) the loose
plug would loose its thermal contact with the cyl. head and thus loose the
cyl. head as it's heat sink, 3) combustion gas leakage past the plug threads
could easily impinge on the CHT sensor.

So, right now I'm thinking that I have a short term solution at best, and
that I need to either replace the head(s) or, given the mileage (about
55,000) on my engine, start looking for a new engine.  Any opinions on
cylinder head vs engine replacement?  This bus is not a daily driver, but I
do go on long trips so reliability is important.

Any recommendations for sources of cylinder heads?  If I decide on engine
replacement, I was thinking of buying a long block from Boston Bob or Jake
Raby - any other suggestions?  I am in the Philly, PA area.

-----Original Message-----
From: jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net [mailto:jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net]
Sent: Monday, September 15, 2003 5:45 PM
To: rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] 71 Bus appears to be overheating


Russ Neithammer wrote:
>
> 71 Westy with stock 1600 DP Doghouse, stock distributor and carb.,
snip
>  Since installing the gauges, I have seen CHT at about 300 deg max., OT
> at about 180 to 200 deg. max. and OP at about 25 psi (hot), all at highway
> speeds.
snip
> About 2 weekends ago, I went did a 3 hour or so trip, and suddenly saw CHT
> hitting the 400 deg mark, and I also saw rather large CHT temperature
swings
> from loaded to unloaded (i.e., uphill vs downhill) which I have not seen
> before to this degree.  OT and OP are still following the normal pattern
of
> the last 2 years, and the bus seems to be running fine.

Your cht temps are low in my books,, maybe your highway speeds are 55 - 60
mph? lower than my 75 mph
or you have the CHT somewhere other than the #3 plug

I am guessing your driving habits stayed the same, and you have driven the
same sort of terain before,
so I would guess maybe you got some gasoline that is a different blend??

Or,, there is an vacuum leak causing the engine to run a bit lean?
The distributor decided to seize up and fail to advance properly,
could the CHT sender have been loose?
What color are your spark plugs,, do they look lean?


I dunno, It sure will be interesting to hear what caused this.

--
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
