From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'ratwell(-at-)mac.com'" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, "'scmills21(-at-)tntech.edu'"
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 17 Sep 2003 12:02:57 -0500
Subject: Re: [T2] rear vent window fitment

Richard & Chris the Librarian:

I just saw the thread (and I'll spare The List - no, what the heck!) - and I
have to concur with Librarian the Librarian...  It REALLY looks like the
itty bitty tabs that secure the vent window have not been properly
"adjusted", and/or the larger/rearmost pane of glass was installed first,
and the vent window second.  If you lift up the seal on the inside, you
"should" be able to see them where they "should" be poking through the new
seal, and bent/wrapped over onto the bodywork.  After one or two junkyard
removals of said rear compartment vent windows, I figured out that the
appropriate order of dis-installation is large rear glass first, and THEN
the vent window.  As is oft said, installation is the opposite of removal.

There are some little cut-outs in the bodywork where the tabs fit through /
fit over, and then the whole mess is slid front-wards (FiF) about an inch -
inch and a half; once past the little cut-outs the tabs can be re-bent
around the whats-it...  THEN the rear most window(s) are installed once the
vent window(s) are secured.  Those little loose rubber tabs off the vent
window seal give me the hint that it's been installed back-*ssward.  I've
seen many a vent window extracted from 'yard buses where the rear most
window has NOT be removed, but I suspect that the internal metal frame was
corroded into non-existence or it was boogered to bits by this extraction
method, the extractors apparently only interested in the glass - caring not
for the precious and NLA'd frame that may or may not have been
salvageable...

Mind you, I have not worked up the courage to do this on the '72 Weekender
with it's one rear vent window (but have the rubber to do both of the
windows), and it's going to be practice for the '73 Deluxe with the 3 (count
'em, 3) vent windows - eeeep-a-lay!  I figured it was much better to take a
few practice runs on 'yard buses (and harvest a few frames to boot), because
while the seals are once again available, last I was told the frames are
not.  Paint, paint, paint those "new" used frames, guys, until the Gods of
Repop bless us with their wares!

Incidentally from what I've been able to observe, the frames are a two piece
affair:  the "vertical" piece that the vent latches against is left or right
handed depending on location in the bus, the more "U-shaped" piece is
universal and can be used left or right, right-side up or up-side down then
riveted to the "vertical" to close the framework.  Left-hand frames are
relatively easy to find, but the right-hand units are much tougher because
the "yard-folk" usually RIP the Deluxe doors off the poor things.
Fortunately, the "vertical" doesn't seem to be as prone to corroding as the
"U", so all is not completely lost :-)

Have fun - now back to figuring out how works a Karmann Ghia!

Jim Hayden
www.savethebays.org
