Date: Tue, 4 Apr 2006 17:55:35 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Ryan Shawley" <rshawley(-at-)allianceimaging.org>
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Please Help, woes of my 71 Camper

I'll start with my question up front and follow with my long winded
history.  I have a 71 camper which I had a local semi retired mechanic
place a new GEX single port long block.  He convinced me to pick up a new
carb to go with it the 30/31.  After reinstalling the engine and getting
it to start we are unable a achieve idle.  The engine currently has an 009
distributor, valves were checked and adjusted, and points are correct.  We
changed the gas and filter, the bus will idle when cold but dies as soon
as it begins to get warm.  Attempts at changing the timing and idle
adjustment on the carb doesn't help.  We checked for vacuum leaks,
visually and with starting fluid at the intakes and base of carb. 
Compression checks show 145-150 in all cylinders however the gauge is
suspect as it reads 45 disconnected.  An old gauge reads 115 (presumably
all around)on the engine that sat and cooled off for 35 minutes.  The
question (s) where do I go from here?  What should I be checking or am i
overlooking?

Now the long story.....
I bought this bus in 2000 in South Carolina, it ran pretty good but had
some cosmetic issues.  I did some upgrades and the local shop (Import
Specialties Columbia, SC) looked it over and advised me of any impending
issues.  They found no major problems, around I took the bus to Hickory NC
and troubles began...  The bus broke down and it had an obvious major
failure.  I found a local mechanic in Lenoir, NC who agreed to pickup the
bus and a do a rebuild.  When I picked the bus up it never made it home,
it began to overheat about 30 miles out.  The guy came back for the bus
and the second drive home got me past Charlotte where again it began to
overheat.  I got it towed home to Columbia and the mechanic told me to
bring the engine to him and he'd make it right.  Well I did and
reinstalled it and things were never right after that but it did run. 
Well eventually the thing acted up again on longer highway speed drives
(55 mph ish) and sounded as if it were going to throw a rod.

By this time I had decided to work as temporary worker, moving to
different hospitals on the east coast, I'd gotten married too.  I knew the
bus needed a new engine but I was moving around too much to work with it. 
Eventually I moved it to storage in PA where we ended up moving. (uhaul
car trailer) While on assignment in NJ I saw an ad for a new GEX single
port long block.  After talking to the guy I got the story and price and
decided to buy it.  Supposedly he got it for an old bug project and
ordered it with the 6 v flywheel.  He seemed fairly sure it'd work with
some adaptation after hearing about my bus.  The engine appeared unused
and still had a tag on it, the price $450, I bought it.  I put this engine
in storage as we were still apartment bouncing with our temp jobs.  I
began to pickup more parts in preparation for getting my bus back on the
road. (steering box, brake parts, flywheel lock, sp carb etc...)

Now its 2005 we moved back to PA permanently bought another house found
another rental garage for the bus and then our daughter came in the fall.
I'm enrolled in school part time working full time, doing the long block
swap myself was not an option, plus I was a bit intimidated.  In our area
there is only one air cooled mechanic who is now semi retired.  I told him
my story and he agreed to take on the job.  Firlst he had to drill a third
hole for the engine brace,do a flywheel swap and find a generator setup to
work.  He put a new carb on 30-PICT/31-PICT1.  So far I'm $500 dollars
into this for the swap, new carb, new starter, and all the misc supplies
including the used tinware and stuff.  Now that the engine is in this guy
has moved on to other jobs although he acts as a "think tank" and advisor
as I fiddle with things with my limited spare time.  I will say this guy
is a little kooky but the only old VW mechanic in business locally.  My
knowledge is limited I admit, but I do my best reading up on this stuff. 
I'm sure decisions I've made in the past concerning this weren't the best
but I can't change that now.  If your wondering I'm 30 and I think my wife
may slowly be losing patience with me and the bus.  I need to get this
thing running and on the road or cut my losses and sell.  As far as the
longblock goes, I don't know what was new and what was rebuilt (at the
time I didn't know enough to ask)the case is Brazilian and the heads are
stamped Mexico FWIW.  The engine does start but shuts off after a few
minutes of warmup.  Oh yeah I'm in southwestern PA 20 miles from the
flight 93 crash site.  Please point me in the right direction.

Oh yeah the mechanic guy is going to get a new gauge to test the
compression, he feels anything under 150 can cause insufficient vacuum and
cause idling issues.  He has also speculated about an incorrectly
installed timing gear (this I don't quite understand).

Thanks alot for any help

Ryan
