From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 3 Jun 2003 10:27:40 EDT
To: res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Annie... engine attitude... trip/issue report

oil blowing out the top sounds like blown oil cooler or oil cooler seals.   . 
 Before reinstalling your oil cooler get it pressure tested.   put new oil 
cooler seals on, and also, remove the flywheel and put on a new main seal as 
long as the engine is out. 

 Guess it a good time to check fuel line, trans axle boots.  change gear oil, 
new engine to body seals, rear brake felx hosesall that stuff tyhat's easier 
w the engine out.

I consider this a must do when buying a splitty. Especially if there is any 
oil seepage.  Because  usually there is some overdue stuff to deal with there.  
Unless you know the PO was real good about maintenance , and see records of 
it. 

hopefully it didn't hurt your engine too much, this over heating espisode.

I dunno what  that wierd wire is.  It's not needed on a spliity.  there is no 
where to plug it into.  

the fan shroud issue:  Do you have the thermostat all in place?   the 
verticle rod?  It might be binding on something.  It shoud go throughthat hole in the 
head down to the thermostat.   I can't descibe which gap, but Eric Veewee111 
can.  I use a flashlight to line it up with the thermostat. or the guess way.  
or try a couple times.  That left flap should move up and down easily.   I 
remove the thermostat to allow that verticle rod to come up with the fan shroud.

what's up with the hex on ignition switches?


In a message dated 6/2/2003 10:00:47 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net writes:

<<
 lid to find
a lot of oil had blown out of the hole on the passenger side of the fan
housing (pictured here:
http://community.webshots.com/photo/75454343/75455173IkgCXp). 
The engine was hot, real hot.  I tried to check the oil, but since a lot of it
 was dripping out onto the muffler and that dipstick was just short of 
glowing,
 I thought I should let it cool a little while.  After a few minutes (10) I
 still had to use a rag to grab the dipstick.  I seemed to have too much oil
 still.  Perhaps I put to much in and the excess blew out the top??? 
...
 I pulled the engine myself (not bad for my second
time doing it) and stripped the fan housing off to find the Oil Cooler in the
doghouse (FYI... '74 DP engine).  It was pretty nasty.  The grates were full
of crud, so it could be that the air wasn't flowing through very well.  I
pressure washed it (blocking off the holes first) and it came out pretty 
good. >>
