Date: Fri, 6 Jun 2003 00:14:57 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: General(-at-)OldVolks.com
Subject: today's 'what NOW' engine build problem :)

oddly enough, NOT due to the aluminum case... as far as i can tell! :P

got the motor off my engine stand and out to the test stand in the 
yard (3 cinder blocks, a tranny and a vespa gas tank hung on a bungee 
cord), and started the final assembly bit: end play.
now, i hadn't done this EARLIER because my new engine stand had a 
clearance issue (and the owner of the other one wanted it back) - i 
had vw alley build me a custom yoke that would fit my huge 
hein-warner V8-style engine stand. well, they made the yoke arms too 
short, and my torque wrench and socket wouldn't fit between the crank 
and yoke. no prob, says i, end play is a piece of cake!

ha.

as i am trying out 3 shims (24,24, 30, the same as on the last 
crank/fw), i realize the wrench is not reaching torque where it 
should. in fact, i look and see the bolt slipping on the washer, and 
peeling off metal shavings! wtf?
take off the crank - the backside of the washer shows clear evidence 
of dowel pins indenting and scraping it, too.

now, this is NOT the crank i started with - that one had a weld 
disintegrate on it, and dpr replaced it. like the first, this one was 
8-doweled, with 4 dowels being longer than the others. unlike the 
last one, however, it doesn't fit the f/w!  either they screwed up 
inserting the dowels, or they cut the flywheel face for some reason, 
as the dowels are clearly taller than the holes in the flywheel.
closer inspection reveals the f/w not even contacting the crank, let 
alone seating.

tapping them further into the crank was my first thought...  perhaps 
they've just worked loose. nope.  a smart tap with a hammer yields no 
improvement, an i am NOT about to start hammering on a new engine 
like thor.
  my  next response was to get them out and inspect the holes for 
crud, proper depth, etc, but those puppies are IN there. i have a 
feeling destruction of the dowel is the only way to get it out... big 
vise grips here we come. luckily i have a few stock dowels around.

for the record, the dowel heights are as follows: .4", .37", .404", 
.406" (roughly 10mm)  and .318", .283", .281" and .271" (shy of 8 
mm). the depth of the f/w in this area is .32" ~ 8mm.

like i said, either the morons at dpr failed to properly drill the 
crank, or someone (the balancer?) cut the f/w face 2mm for some 
reason. i understand that the shorter, stock-length dowels no longer 
should top out in the f/w hole, but neither should the longer ones 
protrude!!!

ronnie, any thoughts?
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
