From: "gns.wagnon" <res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Vintage Bus Post" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 6 Jun 2003 01:32:37 -0500
Subject: Update:  Annie... engine attitude... trip/issue report

Volk-A-Maniacs,

Thank you all for your input and information about my saga to and from the
Woodburn, OR show last week.  Although I couldn't do all the things
suggested this week, I do plan to rebuild the engine with new seals and such
later this summer.  And get some body work and painting done.  For this week
though, I wanted to get her back on the road to camp out at the Emery farm
this weekend in Amity, OR (or do they consider themselves in McMinville...
anyway.)  Here is a link to their show info if someone would like join the
fun.
http://www.partsobsolete.com/campout_2000.htm
It looks like a lot of Porshe stuff, and it is, but a good turn out of buses
as well (~20 last year between the single cabs, double cabs, campers and
most other flavors).  Plus it is just so relaxed.  Grass everywhere,
campfire for all, a personal walkthough of their restoration shops.  From
stripped metal to shine on the chrome.  Very impressive.  (Can you believe I
am not even getting paid for this advertisement???)  :o)

Here is what I did do this week...
It looks like I may have found the seating issue with the Fan Shroud.  It
doesn't seem to sit all the way down on either side.  I was forcing (letting
it fall into place) one side down and that made the other side sit up to
high.  I basically split the difference and bolted them on with plenty of
grab at the bolt.  Also had to make sure each of the flap arm mechanisms
could move freely (this is where I think the overheating came from... they
may have been mashed shut).  At least that is my current theory.  Can
someone take a look at their 1600DP and see if the rear of the Fan Shroud
(by the bolt holding it on from either side... both sides actually.  Almost
directly above #1 and #3 spark plugs) is sitting down all the way to the
bump line in the tin?

The oil blowing out the top... still not sure what the deal was.  I could
have sworn the trajectory of the oil on the roof of the engine compartment
was directly impllicating the hole to the passenger side top of the Fan
Shroud.  But, when I opened it up, there was no obvious signs of Oil in that
general area... Hmm.  Perhaps within the shroud the vent 'pipes'
(rectangular air paths) were hiding something from me.  I checked the Oil
Cooler for obvious signs of a hole.  Even cleaned it out with some solvent
(gas) per instruction in Muir's guide and the only holes it came from were
the two that are suppose to be there.  It's a mystery to be solved at a
later date.  Hopefully, I don't ruin something major in the process.

I still havn't taken her for a test run, but she fired right up after we got
all the parts back in place.  Idled pretty well too.  I will drive to work
tomorrow (4 blocks) and see if any adjustments should be made.  Then after
work, to the Emery farm for camping (40 miles away and over a pretty good
hill... eek!)

Wish me good karma.
Type at you later,
Greg

'67 Sundial - Annie (Likes to be on blocks, but I have taken her down
again...)
'74 Beetle carcus
