From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 6 Jun 2003 10:16:18 EDT
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: scoops are cooler

well, for those of you who remember I did a physics project on ACVW cooling.  
It turned out that putting scoops on my 61 dropped the head temperature by 10 
degrees (Celcius).  That's 18 Fahrenheit, and pretty significant.  ya, I 
think they are butt ugly, and interfere with the art deco lines of the splitty.   
But the data says they make the heads cooler 

The way it worked was to cool the air in the engine compartment.  You see, 
the air in the engine compartment also dropped 10* C.   But the air blasted out 
past the seals (even though they are in decent shape and are there).  

It actually slightly reduced the air flow through the heating/cooling system! 
  The engine compartment air was as much as 22C (40* F) warmer than outside 
w/o scoops. 
  Heat transfer is proportional to difference in temperature(from hot object 
to cool air)  time area.  (then add in really complicated equations about 
airflow) Scoops dropped the temp of the cooling air

I didn't go past 55mph (4500 rpms) in 3rd, but it seemed past that if I went 
much faster it would have run cooler w/o scoops.  but who goes real fast in 
3rd anyway?

The top speed I used was 70 in 4th (was 3600 rpms)  ( would need balanced 
tires for going faster than 70.  It was kinda scary.  You see, I never tried to 
get the bus past 70 before).   The days I tested on were in the high 60s or low 
70s.  

the bus has the early 64 gearing, and a one ton suspension.  1600 sp doghouse 
 stock muffler.  I rebuild the top end of the motor a few (four?) years ago, 
and cleaned out all the flashing casting from the heads

so I am not going to use scoops anyway, as I think they are ugly and I don't 
have over heating issues.   But I might be tempted to take my removable ones 
along if I was going somewhere south and hot on a road trip in the summer.

If anyone want, I have graphs and such

I was going to test more things (like removing seals/ tin) but didn't have 
the time
