Date: Sat, 8 Jun 2002 01:11:45 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Clutch cable weirdness [long]

So I'm greasing all the pedal linkages under the front of the Bus.
Accelerator - apart and together no problem.  Brake - a stuck clevis
needed a little persuasion but it came apart.  Also, the cupped
washer ("spring seat" in the parts manual) was trapped between
the pivot pin and the frame member, instead of being free to move
on the pin.  No problem there either - put it over the pin on
re-assembly.

Then I started working on the clutch.  It had a little preload on
it - after removing the nut I had to pry the piece that the clutch
cable attaches to off the end of the shaft.  Got it apart and greased
and started putting it back together.  No matter how I try, though,
I can't get the clutch cable holding piece back over the flatted
part of the shaft.  Being a clever person, I figured I would go to
the back and loosen up the cable back there some, attach the front,
and then adjust the clutch like normal.

I headed to the back with my two wrenches - I don't have the fancy
wing nut like on my Dad's '74 Bug.  Having now worked with both
types, I agree with Muir - I would have no problem if VW had started
using the wing nut in oh, say, 1946 or so.  Anyway, I get some slack
on it, and go back up front to pull the slack in.  Nothing doing.
Two hands on the clutch cable yanking - finally it moves a little
tiny bit.  "WTF" I say.  I head to the back again and see that the
cable has worn a bit into the end of the Bowden tube.  So I try to
pop the cable back down into the center of the Bowden tube - nothing
doing.  I decide it all needs to come apart for inspection.  100
quarter-turns of two different wrenches later, I have the cable end
loose.  I get the Bowden tube down and I am amazed by what I see.

The clutch cable has cut almost all the way through the end of the 
Bowden tube.  It was prevented from going any further outward by
the Bowden tube holder cast into the transmission side plate.  So,
the cable has been running _in the metal_ at the end of the Bowden
tube for about an inch or so.  No wonder it was so stiff.  (Like,
stiffer than the amount of stomp needed on the brake pedal to lock
all four up.)  Amazingly, the cable didn't seem to be any the worse
for wear when I got it out of the tube - no kinks or broken strands
in the part that had cut the groove.

I'm going to look for a new Bowden tube, but if I can't find one,
I might just spin mine 180 degrees and rig some way to keep it there.
I figure I can do this at least three more times before the end of
the tube is totally thrashed.  :)  The parts appear to be right
for my Bus - the Bowden tube holder is cast into the side plate of
the transmission and the release arm on the transmission is straight.
I haven't checked to see how well aligned the end of the tube and
the eye in the release arm are, but I will check before I put it
all back together.

See the carnage yourself at 
http://members.cox.net/mattroberds/bowden1.jpg ,
http://members.cox.net/mattroberds/bowden2.jpg , and
http://members.cox.net/mattroberds/bowden3.jpg .  This last one has
a piece of wire stuck in the tube showing the route the clutch cable
took.

Matt Roberds


