From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 9 Jun 2002 15:45:29 EDT
To: mleard(-at-)csenergie.qc.ca, Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] rear corner panel

ya, they changed the taillight level sometimes around then- end of dec 58- so 
they are 100mm lower and 12mm to the outside '59 (real year, not model year) 
and later. of couse the oval taillights were introduced for the 62 model 
year.   there is a taillight FAQ on the vintagebus.com webpage.

why someone wrote 54-64 I have no clue.  VW did not write that- they wrote 
part numbers.  Buyer beware!  people will sell you stuff either to get a buck 
or because they do not know exactly what they have or whether it is right for 
your vehicle.  There are parts lists online.   However, VW often did the same 
thing- sell a later stamping IF it'll fit the earlier bus.  That's what the 
letters at the end of the P/N mean- which version of the part it is.  
sometimes it'll fit, sometimes it won't.  Sometimes they changed the part 
cosmetically and did not change the p/n.   Supercessions are listed at the 
front of the parts list, dunno if they were scanned into the online version.  
So what that meant is that at the time version B and C are no longer made, 
now VW sells version D only, and it fits and works.  If its superceded, they 
later parts will fits the earlier bus, but may not be accurate for an 
original restoration.  VW would not have listed a 64 corner as superceding 
the 58 or 60, or 62 (or earlier, as the reflector buses had indents there) 
styles, as it would not fit the pre 64 bus.  But I doubt they would keep 
making all the different original versions either.

  FWIW, as of the 64 model year the corner above the belt line is different 
as the later back hatch is wider.  you could cut the corner, though it is a 
shame.  Maybe you can find one to trade.  good luck


 In a message dated 6/5/02 8:14:43 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
mleard(-at-)csenergie.qc.ca writes:

<< I recently bought 2 NOS rear corner panel, i just need one, the passenger
 side.
 
 On the panel its says bus 1954-1964
 
 I have a bus 1960
 
 BUT, the round hole for the tailight is very round and about 1 inch higher
 than my 60 tail light hole ...
 
 Is that a shame if i cut it to fit my corner?? my first thought was they
 were made for 54+ tail light ...
 
 If yes, anybody want to exchange for 1960 NOS one ?
  >>
