From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>, "'type2(-at-)type2.com'"
Date: Fri, 20 Dec 2002 11:10:07 -0800
Subject: RE: [T2] Re: [VB] VW Drag day March 23,2003

  That is why I am sponsering a type2class, it CAN nad WILL be done

ronnie

-----Original Message-----
From: Hayden,James P. [mailto:James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com]
Sent: Friday, December 20, 2002 10:31 AM
To: 'type2(-at-)type2.com'
Subject: [T2] Re: [VB] VW Drag day March 23,2003


	And Ronnie thusly wroted:

	"...Wouldn't it be great if a bus won over all, it could be
done!!!..."

	Ronnie, et al...

	It very nearly WAS done at Drag Day #2 in September, and nobody paid
any attention to the report as posted by Itch the Wonder Westy's own human
Mike Visket.  I say WAS, because I do believe there was a third catagory
(water-pumper?) and I'm not one of thum "Fist & The Felching..." types, and
get my kicks on trips a bit longer than a city block or two.  To wit: Mike
went to DD #2 on lark and ran in the over-8 second class, and waded his way
through the competition in that class.  In the end he faced off against the
under-8 second class winner.  The silence on the list was almost as
deafening as the 12-14 seconds of silence at the track when Mike skunked
that turbo bug and it's pet human on the 6 second handicap...  Althought
Mike broke out of his dial-in, the turbo bug broke out even worse.  The bug
folks reported that it was the worst in pysch-ops having to watch Itch's
tail lights go down the track and waiting for what seemed an eternity to get
their light.

	Sometime Type 2 list poster and recent "Save The Bays!" inductee
Simon Ramirez was there as a witness to the slaughter - and can even be seen
in the videotape of the event, hopping up and down with glee - looking for
all the world like (and I say this with "wuv and feewings") a 12 year old
crackhead with a bladder problem on Christmas morning... (you really do,
Simon - it's pretty funny!).  Feel free to chime in as you were there, dude,
and I wasn't... 

	Us-ans at "STBs!" are still waiting to see how HVWs magazine reports
THIS embarrassing fact to the public.  It has also spawned a quasi-factual
cartoon on one of the back pages of a recent VWTs issue, although the bus in
the cartoon is depicted as a splitty loaded to the gunnels with goo.  And
not a meet, right, salutary, and proper race-winning pop-top bay westy with
an awning...  The propaganda mill rolls on tirelessly :-(

	Jim Hayden
	Vice Minister of Agit-Prop, Type4 Power Wing Commandant
	www.savethebays.org
