Date: Fri, 20 Dec 2002 10:01:49 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: pokey(-at-)vanagon.org, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] WTB: Thermostat Controlled Fan for Oil Cooler

>OK, I bought an oil cooler (ZAP-11701):
>
>http://www.bus-boys.com/oilcoolingremote.html
>
>Anyone know where I can get a thermostat controlled fan for
>it?

I bought a cooler and fan like this from CB Performance in 1995. A year 
later I found the same fan and cooler and an electronic thermostat 
available at about the same price at Pep Boys. I squeezed the thermostat 
sensor in between two fins. I was able to custom set the on/off temps.

Worked brilliantly! This was in a Type IV Beetle (that has been in the barn 
for several years now). When I was moving the a Type IV engine oil cooler 
kept the oil cool enough hanging down in the air flow under the car (this 
car has a 911 style cooling kit that was an early version w/o arrangements 
for an oil cooler). When it got hotter a CB Performance oil stat opened and 
hot oil moved into the flat cooler shown in that link above. This would 
cool a bit more (it was out of the airflow above the tranny) if the car was 
moving but if I stopped for very long and if the weather was very hot 
(JULY) and if I had been on the highway the fan would come on for a few 
minutes and then go off if I got moving or the fan ran more than 2-3 minutes.

The fan was set up so it was next to the bottom of the floor behind and 
below the rear seat (outside) and it blew outward towards the tranny 
through the flat oil cooler. I plan to add one just like it to my Bus 
whether I operate under VW power or Corvair power.

I won't order another kit through CB Performance as I know Pep Boys, 
Advance Auto, and Auto Zone (just to name a few FLAPS) all carry this type 
of parts. These are typically called transmission coolers as most domestic 
engines don't use oil coolers. It isn't that CB's price was out of line but 
it was the same as the local price and locally I don't have to pay shipping.






Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
