To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 21 Dec 2002 19:22:36 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [T2] decorating the bus for Xmas

YES! i have decorated mine! unfortunately, i dont have a power inverter
to be able to drive around with them lit up, but it is lit as long as it
is in my yard/driveway. i bought rope lights last year after christmas to
go on my bug this year (but now my bug doesnt run and i have a bus now,
lol), and i ran those around the rain gutter/bottom of the westy top. i
had to run a wire under the front of the  westy top to tie it up there,
but along the back i was able to use clips where there isnt a seal under
the cargo rack portion of my westy top. then i hung icicle lights on the
inside of the bus using clips to hold the lights to the curtain rods. the
icicles that were really long, i looped under the cord that holds the
bottom of the curtains, and wrapped them around themselves back to the
top. i started that at the back hatch to keep them from getting caught in
the door and crushed. when i got back to the side windows, i realized i
didnt want the lightbulbs that close to all that 30 year old dry luan
(paper thin layered wood panelling), so i went ahead and made it a nice
clean looking job by doing the sides the same as the back. it also makes
me feel better about the fact that my kids are less likely to play with
them if they are tied up, lol. i also have a string of looney toons
lights my mom gave me a few years ago strung across the front windshield.
i pulled up to a drive-in one night and the lady started laughin and
asked if they really light up. i said yes, but only in my driveway. DAMN
i wish i had a power inverter!!!

just a couple days ago i got a big roll of wrapping paper at the dollar
store (with cute little snowmen on it) and wrapped the rear westy
cabinet, headache rack and westy table with it. it looks SO COOL! i need
to cut out the rear cabinet door and wrap it separately and wrap the
closet door and the bottom foot of the cabinet since the paper wasnt wide
enough to go from floor to ceiling. i am also considering wrapping the
lower half of the jump seat and the icebox/sink unit.

oh yeah, i also hung christmas ornaments on the curtain rods, tossed a
few christmas stuffed animals on the dash and made little scarves for my
"lilo & stitch surfer bobbles". i figured "it's getting kinda chilly out
and here they are not wearin much, so why not make them some scarves?
besides, they dont look very christmasy in their hawaiian get up" yeah,
yeah, so i'm a little deranged... but you knew that... i am a VW addict!

i wanted to hang a wreath off the front mounted spare, but i dont have
the money for one of those, either :^(

wavin and wishin santa would give me a power inverter so the rest of town
can just how crazy my neighbors think i am,
chris
70 westy
65 euro sunroof beetle

On Sat, 21 Dec 2002 16:40:21 +0000 "Bus Gypsy" <busgypsy(-at-)msn.com> writes:
...  Anyone ever string lights on their bus?  It will be dormant and have

> access to 120v.  Figure I might as well decorate something in the 
yard.  
> Everyone always decorates their house.  What bout the bus?  Anyone 
drive 
> with a wreath?   Merry Christmas everyone!!!!!           Bus Gypsy & 
> Cass
