From: "The Bus Depot" <vintagebus(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: "'Kabayo'" <cabayao(-at-)earthlink.net>, <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 00:34:52 -0400
Subject: RE: Parts ordering experience w/ 4 vendors

> Bus Depot: **
> I had a long list of stuff to order from Bus Depot, after comparing
> their prices and availability of various parts. I asked the man who
> took my order to tell me which items were actually in stock. He
> told me that he had all but three or four items.  I told him to delete
> those items from the order, and I would order them elsewhere.  He then
> tried to convince me to keep them on the order, that he could probably

> get them in one to three days, and it would not be a problem.  I told
him
> that I needed the order to ship right away, and not be held up while
waiting for 
> parts to come in.  He told me it would not be a problem, and I would 
> still get my order in "seven to ten business days".  I asked when my 
> order would actually ship, and he answered "in time for you to get it 
> in seven to ten business days".  I was getting frustrated, as he was 
> not answering my question. He asked if I wanted expedited shipping.  
> I said, not if it means paying extra. I gave him my cc info and got
off the
> phone, irritated and wondering why this place gets such good reviews.

> Maybe the parts will arrive quickly and I'll be happier then.



A couple of comments and a question...

While I don't disagree with what the person with whom you spoke said, it
certainly seems that he could have said it in a far more friendly
manner. It's obvious that his demeanor did not exactly present a good
impression of the Bus Depot.  Hence, the question first - I'd like to
find out who it was, so I can personally remind him that ultimately you
are responsible for his employment. But I do need your name, so I can
look up the order to confirm who took it and take corrective action.

That said, I can't disagree with most of the content of what he said,
although perhaps some explanation is in order. It is indeed our policy
to quote 7-10 working days delivery on ground orders. We rarely take
that long these days, but experience has taught me not to promise
anything that I'm not sure I can deliver. If you get your order in 4
days and I promised 7, you're happy - but if I promised 3, you're
disappointed.  So our staff is strictly forbidden to promise anything
beyond "7-10 working days for delivery" on ground orders. However, if
you order via Expedited delivery, you get guaranteed swift delivery.
Expedited orders (next day delivery, second day, or third day) go to the
"head of the line" and go right out the door. Often the cost is hardly
more than ground (particularly in the case of third-day). I strongly
recommend that you get a quote on this if you're in a hurry. Our prices
are often low enough that even with the date-guaranteed Expedited
delivery you will still pay less than with some other vendors. 

If you email Cheri at sales(-at-)busdepot.com, or call Customer Service  at
1-215-234-8989, they can check availability when you order. But this can
be deceiving, because much of what we don't have, we can get the next
morning, or even dropship. (That's one way we keep prices down; we stock
the hard-to-get stuff, and order the easy stuff daily, rather than
paying $$$ to warehouse parts that are instantly available to us
anyway.) So it may be more useful to ask what can be obtained very
quickly, rather than what is in stock at that moment. 

A word (okay, a lot of words :-) about shipping charges, since you
brought up the issue of various vendors "marking up the shipping charges
over the published rates" (although not in reference to us). In the
"real world," it is virtually impossible to charge actual shipping cost
on every order. I don't know of any VW parts vendors that do, and for
good reason. To understand why, you have to consider that on the vast
majority of orders, the actual shipping cost will only be known once the
order is boxed, as there is an infinate combination of parts and sizes,
an unknown amount of packing material, and the shipping company's
dimensional surcharges (whereby a box that weighs 3 lbs is billed as 6
because it exceeds the shipper's maximum size for a 3 lb shipment). So
there are only a few ways to handle this:

1) Quote only an estimate at time of order, and then adjust it once the
order is boxed  Of course, in cases where the actual cost was lower, we
could simply reduce the charge and ship.  But if it were higher, we'll
have to await the customer's approval, or we'd be deluged with
complaints whenever the actual charge exceeded the estimate.  Meanwhile
we'd have huge stacks of orders that couldn't ship until the customer
called or emailed back. Half of those people would be pissed off that
their order got delayed (especially if it took a day or two to get a
hold of them). Another percentage, after getting the higher quote, would
want to cancel the order or delete items from it, forcing us to unpack
it, rebox it differently, and requote (or restock the items). It would
be a fiasco. Everything would grind to a snail's pace in the shipping
department while we made order-by-order adjustments. And all of our
prices would go up to pay for the extra manpower involved. By the time
we raised the prices to cover this, it would cost the customer more than
the current alternative.

2) Quote no shipping charge at all, and simply promise that we'll charge
actual cost when the order ships. But again, we couldn't do this unless
we called each customer first. Otherwise, everyone who was
overoptimistic (or downright unrealistic) about shipping costs would be
upset when they got their bill. So we're back to calling every customer,
which, as I said, is impractical. 

3) Pay someone to weigh and measure 100,000 parts, and design a computer
program that could add up all of the weights and sizes of the parts in
each order, calculate the box size needed, compare this to available
boxes that met those minimums, and calculate the weight and dimensions
of the resulting packed order in advance, so that an accurate shipping
quote could be given up front.  You don't even want to know what the
cost of this would do to your parts prices. 

4) Quote a set shipping price in advance, and stick to it for better or
worse.  This is pretty much how everyone does it.  Some more honestly
than others.  This can be done in a few ways:
A) Overcharge on shipping and turn it into a profit-maker. Then you can
publish artificially low parts prices in the glossy magazines, and "pad"
the shipping charges to make up the difference.
B) Undercharge on shipping and "pad" the parts prices instead. This way
you can advertise things like "All orders shipped for $5.95" or "Free
shipping," and hopefully some people won't notice that they paid for it
in higher parts prices (or worse yet - but much more commonly because
it's less obvious - in lower parts quality).
C) Undercharge on shipping and NOT pad the parts prices to make up for
it. You will eventually go bankrupt, as many ex-dot-coms can attest to.
D) Come up with an algorithm that works ON AVERAGE, even if not on an
order-by-order basis. This is what we do. Averaged over the year, we
break even on shipping charges. If you order a few times, sometimes
you'll "overpay" and sometimes you'll "underpay" but on the whole it
will be a wash.  We generally stick to the calculated web or catalog
shipping rate, for better or worse, unless it's absurd (such as a bumper
to Hawaii that comes up at $14 and actually costs $60 to ship).  We do
not adjust prices when the actual cost was somewhat lower than we
charged. If we did, this method wouldn't work. Not once has anyone ever
called me and offered to pay MORE because we didn't charge him enough.
People only want an adjustment when it's in their favor. So we'd end
upadjusting shipping only in one direction, thereby losing money  - See
(C) above.  (Also, we set a $5 minimum shipping charge. Otherwise we
would lose too much money on very small orders; it costs much more to
process a $10 order than we make on it.)

Every retailer has their own business model - what they feel they can do
best for their customers. Myself, I'm all about quality and price -
hence our slogan, "Better Parts, Better Prices."  To me, the bottom line
is: did you get a high quality part, at a great price, and within a
reasonable period of time?  To this end, we cut costs absolutely
everywhere we can that do _not_ impact these issues (much like a
warehouse club does), and offer everything at a set markup. This means
no shipping charge games. No bogus "lifetime warranties" that are only
made possible by grossly overcharging you for the part in the first
place. No price gouging on items that are hard to get; if we buy it
cheap, we sell it cheap, until they're gone. (The only exception to our
markup policy is the 5% listmember discount, which we've always offered
as a way to give back to the community that has so staunchly supported
us.)  It's all spelled out at http://www.busdepot.com/help.jsp . If you
agree with this approach, great - if not, well, we have many very worthy
competitors whose approaches differ from ours. No retailer can be all
things to all people. In the end, it's your money and your decision.

Stepping off the soapbox... :-)

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW

_____________________________________________
Toll-Free for Orders by PART # :  1-866-BUS-DEPOT 
