Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 10:56:51 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] 7th Annual High Country Bus Festival - near Boone, NC

> CARABUS:  do you wanna carabus with other bus owners from your area to HCBF?
>
>   If so, then click this link and sign up:
> http://groups.msn.com/FullMoonBusClub/carabustohcbf.msnw

Hmmmm.... I think it time to sit down with some of the list leaders and try to
come up with some better web solutions for the community. I'm not going to
start a religious debate over Microsoft, but I will simply say that I'm not
going to sign up for a Microsoft Passport account just to say what I'll
contribute to the burritos.

It should be too hard to throw together some simple web apps to handle a real
carabus list and breakfast list (without requiring you sign your soul over to
Satan).

Also, it sure would be nice to get the AIRS list in a more 'manageable'
format. Ideally, it would be great to be able to specify your travel route and
get a printer-friendly output of just the AIRS members nearby (and if I can
ever get my Mapping server running correctly, I'd love to set this up). But
moving the list to a database is the first step no matter what format it
ultimately takes. Could you imagine, being able to download the list in
spreadsheet format? So you don't have to print out 35 pages to get a list of
Georgia members when all you really need at the ones along I75? Better yet,
being able to download the list to your Palm Pilot?

Granted, some of this is beyond the scope of the amount of time I want to put
into it (unless someone wants to change my ball-joints for me so I can use the
time to write the web apps).

But to not just sound like a sour grape, I'll offer some things to the
community. First, I have my own web server hosted at an ISP (not plugged into
a cable modem - it lives at the ISP). I can provide web and email service -
for free. The web server is currently running Red Hat Linux and is due for an
upgrade (it's been a couple years and it's currently using a
duct-tape-and-kite-string email system). I don't do FrontPage extensions but I
do PHP, Perl CGI, MySQL, Server Side Includes, etc. Storage is essentially
unlimited and bandwidth usage is limited only by what would be overwhelming
for my friend's ISP to give me for free.

I'll be at HCBF. Hunt me down if you want details.

-Eric

-- 
www.bradway.net
