Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 13:10:31 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: Parts ordering experience w/ 4 vendors

> This is the way the parts situation seems to be, for me anyway--

I've ended up buying parts for my bus the same way I did for my Porsche 911.
For 'emergencies' I go to the local Import FLAPS (except for oil and other
consumables - which they don't stock). For big projects, I order ahead of time
(during planning) from BusDepot.

When I had my 911, I used to order from Pelican Parts. I will say that Pelican
Parts has an awesome website and order management system - BUT! - Wayne
Dempsey, the owner of Pelican Parts, is a software developer who specializes
in web-based order and inventory systems. He started Pelican Parts because he
is an avid Porschephile. Check out their website at
http://www.pelicanparts.com.

I did order from Performance Products a couple times and got decent prices and
the quality was as expected - but always commodity items (like car covers and
such). The local garage that I sometimes had work done through, I think, has
started ordering their parts from Pelican because their parts are consistently
low-priced and high-quality. I get the same level of quality from Bus Depot.
Oh yeah, Pelican Parts packaged my Porsche parts similarly to the way Bus
Depot packages theirs. I'd much rather Bus Depot save money and reuse old
cartons. I'm not sure how much of order with Performance Products went into
their custom boxes and slick gloss catalog.

And a side plug: when I'm at my parents' place in Florida I buy parts from
Eastern Imports in Ocala (and elsewhere). These guys are GREAT - very
knowledgeable and friendly - but very, very busy. Their parts are always
top-notch and usually cheaper than Bus Depot (just 3-5%). Unfortunately, it's
an hour drive from my parents place. A for-instance, I just bought two CV-boot
kits from them at $8.45 a piece - complete German kits including grease and CV
bolts.

If I had a FLAPS like that in my home-town, I'd order EVERYTHING from them
just to make sure they stay in business.

-Eric

P.S. I know BusDepot just overhauled their website and probably spent a few
$$$ to do it, but it sure would have been great if they could have hooked up
with Pelican Parts!

-- 
www.bradway.net
