From: "The Bus Depot" <vintagebus(-at-)busdepot.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "'Theodore Reshetiloff'" <TReshetiloff(-at-)cambridgeassociates.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 13:19:38 -0400
Subject: RE: Parts ordering experience w/ 4 vendors

> Below is a copy of my invoice for 2 items from Bus Depot. I 
> was charged 22.99 in shipping for these 2 items. I have 
> ordered a set of 4 tires for my bus from Tire Rack and paid 
> 29.00, also they arrived the next day, from Delaware to DC. 
>  I order caving gear from a vendor in west VA and I get that stuff 
> in 2 days max. 
> This order was placed on June 29. I have still not received the top
canvas,
> but it has only been 5 business days and it is apparantly coming from
CA...
> How hard is it to send out a trackig number with an order and let me
track it 
> through Brown myself? 


Everything you ordered was shipped immediately after you ordered it. The
very next morning, in fact!

The first was a child's cot. You got it in just one working day. And for
literally 1/2 the price of the next cheapest supplier. (You paid $39. Go
Westy, for example, charges $80 and doesn't have any in stock.)
Incidentally, the child's cot is a perfect example of an item that we
incur oversized shipping charges for. It may not weigh much, but with
poles it's four feet long!

As for the poptop canvas, as you already know, it had to be shipped
directly from the factory in California. (This is only because you
ordered gray. We normally stock poptop canvas in the the most popular
colors, but gray is not one of them.)  But stilll, they had it sewed and
out the door within the same day!  In fact, the canvas will be delivered
to you on Thursday - seven working days after you ordered it, even
though it had to be custom made and shipped across the country. Shipping
coast-to-coast costs more, and takes longer, than shipping tires less
than 100 miles. Believe me, Tire rack would not have sent you 4 tires
coast-to-coast, overnight, for $29.

Before even allowing enough time for it to arrive, you called asking for
shipping data on the canvas. If it were shipping from here, no problem.
In fact, our UPS software automatically emails customers the tracking
numbers of most orders we ship. If you didn't get the email, we'd be
more than happy to provide it over the phone or email it again. But
since it wasn't shipped by us, we didn't have this. We could have called
the factory and make them dig up shipping/tracking records on a shipment
that isn't even late - but why? They have their own jobs to do, and we
have to be considerate and realize that digging up tracking data on
shipments that aren't even late really isn't something they have time
for (especially during their peak season). Our best bet for keeping our
wholesale prices low (and vendor relations good) is to respect their
time, and not make a pain of ourselves unless there actually is a
problem.  Of course, if the shipment were overdue, that would be another
story entirely. In that case we'd expect them to jump through hoops to
make things right.  And they would, since we're not a customer who
wastes their time for no reason. But in this case, as I said, nothing is
late and there's no reason for concern.  In fact your canvas will be
there sooner than quoted.

So, you paid much less than you would have if you'd bought the parts
anywhere else. If you add up the cost of shipping both packages, the
shipping cost was more than reasonable. And you will have received both
products in far less than the promised 7-10 working days - one item in
just one working day, and the second in 7 even though it had to be
specially made.

Which means we did precisely what we promised, in every way. A quality
product, at the lowest price around, SOONER than promised (even with
standard ground delivery).  

I'll be the first to admit that sometimes we screw up an order. But this
simply isn't one of them. Where is the problem? 

- Ron Salmon
  The Bus Depot, Inc.
  www.busdepot.com
  (215)  234-VWVW


P.S. My personal email address is ron(-at-)busdepot.com. You have a direct
line to the owner of the company. If you have a comment, concern,
question, or complaint, that is not addressed on our help page
(http://www.busdepot.com/help.jsp) or promptly resolved by Customer
Service to your satisfaction, please don't hesitate to email me.
Customer satisfaction is a high priority, and I will do everything I can
(within reason) to make things right. But it is neither necessary nor
considerate to gripe to 1000 people in a public forum before (or instead
of!) even bothering to p-mail me about it - especially when it turns out
that your order shipped within hours of when you placed it!
