From: "gil hayes" <gilhayes(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 15:11:41 -0500
Subject: Parts Ordering

I think the BD people at least demonstrated their case on the canvas order
and it seems they made a point.

I would also log in with examples of folks who sell on EBay or other sites
that will have used VW parts.
For example, I took a look at some front seats from a Honda for my bus.
Well, the seats would sell for $25 each, but guess what, you had to also buy
the backseat and they all had to be shipped at no less than...get
this...$100 minimum and really more.

Now, since we jump in and out of car seats, spill coffee on them, screw in
them, etc., it would seem that used car seats could somehow have been gotten
for less.(I didn't get these but got a nasty email from the guy selling them
about my complaints about his costs). I suggested the guy could not send me
the backseat, sell it to someone else, and give me a credit on the shipping.
Wow...did that ever not fly!!!!!!

But what we are all reacting to here is the price of an object that costs
9.00 and then the company makes 25.00 off "shipping and handling" when
charges are applied after we've spent 30 minutes on line and given them our
cc number.

In the above case, the guy asked me how I would package the seats...having
worked for a major major major carrier that shipped everything from bathroom
scales to motorcycles, I offered an opinion. Put plastic around each, put a
tag on them. Add some surplus cardboard, and call FedX or Brown.  I can't
imagine why someone would package old car seats like new Lazy-Boys but
apparently this guy was going to...

the point that BD and anyone else will not admit...is that they make money
off of shipping...end of story. Of course the guys in the mail room have to
be paid. But aren't those costs also figured into the overall profit
margin...of course they are. That's why shipping seems to have become a
separate profit center for some, if not all, companies.

Now, driving across town in Memphis to the local parts house takes 35
minutes, and if they don't have the part then I'm done for.  Time wasted.
So, I have to figure, even on a waterpump, that my time is money and $29 for
the product and $15 shipping may be less expensive. But, I like the boys at
Roy Rodgers and I know that they will help me out if I show them some
respect so I do...even when I add in the 9.5 percent sales tax.

Another example of buying from individuals. I've only been stuck once in my
life and it came from a guy on this list. I payed all but the shipping costs
of a $35 item with PayPal simply because PayPal would not let me spend my
money on their site without verifying and I had 20 plus dollars left.  I
will not verify with PayPal because I do not want to give my bankaccount
number to the entire world. Well, I sent the additiona moneyl via regular
mail and waited. After several emails asking for my parts or the return of
my money and explaining the check had truly been sent,  the guy became
really nasty, vulgar, etc. and basically told me he wasn't paying my
shipping costs. So, the check hasn't cleared, but I'll pay to stop it, and I
have to send more money in order to get my stuff.

This guy will not even refund my original money.

THE ARGUMENT THE GUY USED WAS SHIPPING COSTS...OBVIOUSLY A PLACE WHERE HE
MADE A FEW EXTRA BUCKS.

It really argues for spending the time going across town, paying sales tax
and hoping to find the receipt should it be needed.
