From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 17:09:47 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Parts Ordering

From: "gil hayes" <gilhayes(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>
> the point that BD and anyone else will not admit...is that they make money
off of shipping...end of story...

Now that's just silly.

Actually, I'm angry at the inference that I'm "a thief" because I run an
Internet/mail-order business, and that I'm attempting to conceal the "fact"
that I'm ripping off customers.  But I'll give Gil the benefit of a doubt in
that he's probably not ever run a business that involves shipping product to
customers.

I usually charge the actual shipping cost on everything that we ship, but
I'm considering an application like Bus Depot's that will allow my website
and office to auto-calculate shipping costs.  Besides, there's the fact that
the "actual shipping" doesn't pick up the tab for the packaging, the trip to
the appropriate shipper to drop off the package (there's a surcharge if I
have it picked up), or the actual labor involved in preparing the packaging.

I do not make a dime off of shipping.  By the time that I figure in the
associated costs outlined above, I've lost money.

My retail pricing on reproduction parts is high because of the very nature
of resin casting.  I literally create, cast and handle each and every part
that I manufacture; as in craftsmanship, not mass production.  If I figure
in the cost of preparing a package for shipping, the price will go from high
to astronomical.

For example, the actual retail price on the sliding door handles that we've
just released is $23.00.  But we've been shipping them for $23.00
_including_ the shipping to make it a bit more competitive with other
vendors who sell them for $20.00.  In this case, I lose at least $4.50 to
shipping on this sale.

If I switch to a system like Bus Depot's, it's to simplify things at my end,
and to offer an overall fair price on shipping to my clients and customers.
Over time, the shipping costs will balance out.

But if folk would rather pay for the "actual" shipping, I can go with that.
We're trying to get our catalog ready for the Fall.  I'll keep the shipping
thing in mind when I set up the formulas.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
