Date: Tue, 8 Jul 2003 20:36:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Archibald <androbus(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: [VB] neighbors suck/65 project bus FOR SALE/trade

OK now this has touched a cord here...read on...


I recently also had a similar visit....
I'm in Fremont, in The San Francisco Bay area. in our town
they are practicly nazi's.
I got cited for my vehicles that had not moved in past 72
hours, the '84 vanagon in the strteet that had the 
week-expired temp sticker on back window got a $60 fine and
was told it'd be towed at my expense in a few days if not
removed to a junkyard!  had to sell it for $100 to just get
rid of it to save my can ASAP!  ;-(
THe midget in my driveway as well as the land-rover in
pieces under a tarp in the driveway both got abaytement 
stickers saying have to be taken to the dump or face hell
in a couple weeks...the midget was sitting there because I
was putting in a new clutch!  One of my land'rovers was
sticking 2.5 inches into the sidewalk area from my
driveway!
the other midget was tagged for something forgot what...and
pretty much the only thing that wasn't hastled was the
discovery in the street, and it has sat for three weeks w/o
driving...go figure! I had understood as long as your
vehicle was under a tart or car cover they couldn't do a
thing in the driveway, but these guys are contradicting
me...and the list goes on...arrrghh!

> Most of the ordinances that require that your vehicles
> have a tag or be
> declared junk are unconstitutional.
Wonder how to be able to beat that?  hmmm! not in
KALIFORNIA!!!  ;-(   Dang!! would love to find a way....the
cop was one that had hastled me six years ago about my
vehicles at the time, and I had threatened to sue the
police dept, her, the person who complained etc...hadn't
heard a peep until now...she actually personally
thtreatened me. ( think I got her in trouble back than for
climbing into one of my land-rovers to check the speedo? 
was what I had accused her of as she had ticked me for a 73
hour no move on a car with a warm engine from coming back
from work!  now they say it's illegal to not have a working
odometer?  Not sure if that can possible be legal!


anyway...bitch...bitch...

well I'm almost done putting things together on the
replacement engine and will be asking questions shortly as
to what wires go where!  ;-(
the trouble when you buy a van with the engine out, than
get a replacement engies from another van and put all
together...

Paul
'78 westy
