From: "gil hayes" <gilhayes(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 9 Jul 2003 10:35:20 -0500
Subject: Actual shipping

It's still amazing to me that in response to the discussion of shipping
costs, those who charge for shipping are still whining about the time it
takes to package and drop off an item for shipping.

Isn't that what running a business is all about?

I mean, just because someone has to spend time wrapping something they've
sold, does that mean we have to pay for it.

Let's see. I buy a glass item at Wal-Mart. The clerk takes out some tissue
paper and wraps the item in the paper and puts it in my bag. Simply because
she does not want me to have my item broken when I get home.

Ok. So, does Wal-Mart charge extra for that? Hell no. They figure the cost
of the clerk's time and the paper into the price of the item they sell.

OK. So I go to Roy Rodgers and buy a waterpump. Mack put the pump in a paper
sack."OK Gil, he says, "that's 25 for the pump, 9.5 for tax, my time for
getting the part off the shelf is $5.00 and putting it in the sack is
$7.50.; Total cost is............"

Next thing you know there will be a charge on line for computer time. "Let's
see, $25 for the part, $18 for shipping, and we used four minutes of
computer time to look this up and figure it," that's ............"

My boss doesn't pay me to drive to work of a morning, and I'm not paying
someone to stop off at the shipping platform to send me what he's sold me.

IF a mail retailer wants to charge for "drop off" then he can damn well pay
for a storefront in Memphis like the rest of the vendors here.

If you're not making money in your business, then do something else. Don't
expect those of us who seek you out and send you our money to cry about the
fact that you actually have to get out of bed to collect the money.

I have a friend who runs a restaurant and has successfully for over 30
years. He gets there at 5 a.m., closes at 2:30 and leaves at 7 p.m. He
doesn't charge his customers for those extra hours. He doesn't charge his
customers for using credit cards. He accepts the fact that when he got into
the restaurant business he would be working hard.

What's next? A charge for taking our money to the bank.

Give me a break.
