From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 26 Nov 2002 14:58:14 EST
To: THOMASB(-at-)bayley.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] play in the steering

Get out yr Idiot book by John Muir and follow his instructions for finding 
out where the shimmies and shakes come from.   Often it's a combination of 
worn things, and some are simpler and cheaper to replace than others.  So I 
guess you might want to find out what's going on.

First have a friend (or someone you can bribe with a beer) to gently wiggle 
the steering wheel while you lay underneath.   Take that pan off from under 
the pedals if its there.   The steering box is at the front under the end of 
the steering column.  It has an arm off it (pitman arm) that is connected to 
the front end of the drag link.  The shaft the pitman arm goes to should not 
go in/out of the Steering gear box (SGB).  Changing the SGB is a PITA, so 
hopefully that's not where all the play is.  A bad SGB also clunks when the 
wheel is wiggled.   The ends of the drag link should not wiggle.   follow the 
drag link to the rear and watch that end too.  The rear end is connected to a 
thingy that is connected to the center pivot AKA swing lever.  It should not 
move up/down but only smoothly side to side.  The swing lever is connected to 
the inner ends of the tie rods.  watch both ends of both tie rods for wiggle. 
 they should not wiggle.   Now get out from under, and jack the bus up in the 
middle of the beam (Ebrake on!) with a piece of wood on the jack that'll 
catch the beam right behind the center pivot pin, and jack it up so both 
front wheels are off the ground.   Take a wheel and wiggle push pull at 3 and 
9, then at 12 and 6.   3/9 shows play in the tie rods/drag link and loose 
wheel bearing bit, and 12/6 in the links/kings and possibly wheel bearings.   

What you can do now is put jack stands under the beam, and grease every 
grease point- there are 4 on each spindle and one in the middle, and maybe 
also on the tie rods as well as the two each side on the beam.   Your bus 
loves grease, so do this lube every 3K tune up.  Take the drums off and check 
your front bearings, if they are okay clean and repack with grease and snug 
them down like Muir says.   If they are bad put them on your shopping list.  
I have been able to buy them at Schucks (aka Kragens aka Checkers). Take a 
bad one with you to check you get the right bearing.
Also adjust your link pins - you need two 17mm wrenches- says how in the 
idiot book)
You can also adjust the steering gear box, but don't let it drag when you 
tighten it down (info in Muir's book)
So it is easy to replace drag link and wheel bearings, so if any are bad get 
new and replace them.   See how that improves things.   It costs more to 
replace kings and links and is more work.  Swing lever is also more work and 
SGBox is also more work- mostly getting the steering wheel off.   Your bus is 
old and probably has loads of miles on, so anything can be worn.  I don't 
mean to say don't replace the spindles if they are badly worn, but my 
laziness says do the easy stuff first.

 In a message dated 11/26/2002 11:22:52 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
THOMASB(-at-)bayley.net writes:

<< My 66 Bus has alot of play in the steering. When I'm cruising on I-5, I'm
 struggling a tad to keep it in the lane. I don't know much about the front
 axle & it's steering. Is it typical for the steering box and its components
 to cause this action or is it more likely the sway bar, tie rod
 stuff.......? 
 
 Thanks for any knowledge given!
