Date: Mon, 8 Sep 2003 19:43:51 -0700
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Dead coil?  Weird coincidence! - resolved!

On Sunday, September 7, 2003, at 07:00  PM, Jason Thorpe wrote:

> I guess at this point, I need to check that the cylinders are actually 
> getting fuel, so this is where I get to learn about the Bosch FI, I 
> guess.  I went hunting for loose/disconnected wires and came up empty, 
> so I guess it's time to go through the FI diagnostic procedures in the 
> Bentley manual.

Hooray, the Bus started again tonight.  As everyone said, it was 
something quite simple.

I had just finished running the double-relay test procedure, and was 
screwing it down to the front panel when I noticed one of the hoses to 
the charcoal canister was off-kilter.  I feel silly for not noticing it 
before, but after jamming the hose back on the canister, it started 
after only a couple of cranks.

The clamp on the end of the hose at the canister seems toast.  For that 
matter, the hose doesn't seem to be in very good shape, either.  The 
hose in question is quite different from the other hoses on the engine 
-- a clear'ish plastic which is quite stiff (stiffness maybe from 
age?).  Can I just replace it with clear PVC tubing of the appropriate 
diameter?  This is the hose that connects the canister to the crankcase 
(I guess this is just capturing random fumes from the case to recirc 
into the air intake?)

It seems to be running rich, but that could also be due to the flood of 
gasoline in the cylinders from all of the previous failed start 
attempts.

I think I also hear a hissing in the engine compartment indicative of a 
lingering vac leak -- tomorrow night I'll hook up a gauge and check it. 
  On that note, does anyone have a favorite place to test vacuum?  My 
initial thought was to disconnect the hose from the donut on the 
distributor and test there.  Should I only test vac at idle?  I guess 
revving with the vac advance disconnected probably won't work so well.

Thanks everybody for your suggestions during my little crisis!

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
