From: "Will Anderson" <will.anderson(-at-)tetratech-ffx.com>
To: <candrajonathan(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Sep 2003 00:09:00 -0400
Subject: no spark--maybe?

> Hello again.  Thanks to everyone who responded with
> good ideas for us to try on Isabella, our new '72 bus.
> So, we checked spark from the coil again, and it IS
> getting spark.  Don't know how we missed that the
> first time.  Anyway, then we moved on to the
> distributor, and (actually a friend did this part),
> there is no spark, AND the rotor inside the dist.
> moves, turns.... is it supposed to do that?????

A similar thing happened to me on my way out of town to Bonnaroo, had been
running like crap intermittently for a few hundred miles on previous
weekends, couldn't figure out what it was.

Stopped at the bank for some moolah and Rebertha cranks but no start.  Nada.
Thought maybe gas problem but the Baby Dells were full up and I soaked my
arm checking.  Troubleshot for a few minutes.  No spark at plugs.  New coil
with blue spark coming out of the short wire.  Points opening and closing
correctly, timing spot on at 7 BTDC on the 009 distributor. (flame suit on)

Diagnosis?  Bad distributor cap (spark going in, but not coming out)  even
though the internal contact LOOKED ok.  One of the benefits of being on a
first-name basis with the VWFLAPS is they brought me a new cap and rotor
pronto on their delivery route.  (Props to Bob at Marietta Foreign Auto
Parts--Bosch, ATE, OEM source and better-n-fair prices).

Points ignition and timing are must-know for a new bus owner.  Get the Muir
and Bentley books and read the sections on ignition, and in the type2.com
library, scratch your head, and read them again.  If you still need help,
find a local listee or AIRS guru.  Probably your dist. is fine, but first
you have to verify/reset your timing, statically and possibly with a timing
gun with the engine running (check vacuum hose also), follow specs in
Bentley.  Make sure your spark plug wires are in the correct order, repeat
after me: Zundfolge 1-4-3-2.

This may not be your problem but if the timing checks out, points are
opening and closing with the proper dwell, and you still get no spark at the
plug, it may be worth a shot to get a new cap and rotor.  New points
wouldn't hurt if you know how to set them--and you have to learn this.  If
your points and timing are set right you should have a blue spark at the
plug, pull a plug out and hold it against bare metal somewhere (no, not the
fuel pump) and turn it over for a sec.  If the spark is orange, buy a new
Bosch coil.

Good luck,
Will Anderson
Smyrna, GA
'67 Bug in backyard paint shop
'70 Westfalia "Rebertha" 1835cc  baby spit up a spark plug, uh oh, thanks
AAA
'75 BMW 2002 "Crusty"

PS. Gary's got a '76 091 tranny that needs to hitch a ride from Boston to
somewhere south of the Mason-Dixon line if anybody's going south for the
winter, or I could pick it up in NJ in early December. . . TIA.
