Date: Tue, 9 Sep 2003 07:49:50 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Candra Cantrell <candrajonathan(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] possibly found the problem?????

On Mon, 8 Sep 2003, Candra Cantrell wrote:

> Anyway, then we moved on to the distributor, and (actually a friend
> did this part), there is no spark, AND the rotor inside the dist.
> moves, turns.... is it supposed to do that?????

Perhaps.  The rotor does turn when the engine does.  It should not rotate
if the engine is not rotating. If it does then you have found your
problem.

To solve the problem you should remove and inspect the distributor.  You
should first remove the distributor cap with wires attached and set it
aside.  You should then look at the base of the distributor where it
enters the crankcase.  Tou will see that the shaft is surrounded by a
clamp plate that has two fasteners - one is a barrel nut to pinch the
clamp to the distributor the second is a nut that holds the plate to the
engine block.  Remove the nut that holds the clamp plate to the engine
block and you should be able to lift the distributor from the engine
block.

Once you have the distributor in hand the first step is to check which
distributor you have.  Clean the outside of the case until you can read
the numbers and go to
http://www.oldvolkshome.com/ovhignbo.htm
Once you find your distributor use the application link to see its
characteristics.  Especially look at the last section marked
"Advance/Retard Range:"  If that section lists both a vacuum advance and a
centrifugal advance then your distributor has a split shaft and there will
be 5-10 degrees of movement between the rotor and the drive dog.
Otherwise there shold be none.

Hold the drive dog with one hand and turn the rotor with your other hand.
Depending on which distributor you have there may be some movement but in
no case should it be more than a very few degrees.  If the rotor and drive
dog can be rotated by more than a bit then the distributor needs to be
replaced.

Now check the distributor drive gear.  Look into the hole in the case from
which you extracted the distributor.  First you will see the slot into
which the drive dog engages.  Notice that this slot is not centered in the
gear but is slightly displaced.  Also notice that there is a hole in the
center and that there is a spring in that hole.  If the spring is missing
then you need a replacement from a junkyard or from VW.  Take a large
screwdriver and attempt to rotate the drive gear.  It shold not rotate.
If it does, then the drive has stripped and you will probably need to
rebuild your engine.

If the drive gear and the distributor are intact then reinsert the
distributor into the case.  Before you do this you should inspect the slot
in the gear and the tab on the drive dog and be sure they are roughly in
line.  As you slide the clamp plate onto the stud you shold wiggle the
rotor to be sure the drive dog engages the drive gear.  You should feel
the two click and at that point rotation should cease.  Replace the nut
on the stud and tighten it down.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent
