Date: Tue, 09 Sep 2003 21:43:41 -0400
From: Greg Thompson <gthompso(-at-)mailer.fsu.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Kudos to Bus Depot!

I've literally spent thousands of dollars with Bus Depot in the past
year and a half resurrecting my 74 Single Cab and my 79 Camper.  I guess
I ordered from them because they were on the east coast and I thought my
shipments would get here earlier than west coast orders (although
they've been timely also when I used them).

I've got to say, that in this day and age, Bus Depot does an outstanding
job of customer service.  To deal with literally hundreds of thousands
of parts for multiple (and mostly bastardized)applications must be a
real headache.

I would say that 99% of the time that I've had problems, it was because
I didn't know what I was ordering or I ordered the wrong item.  The
other 1% was my bastardized application or the fact that what I wanted
was no longer available as originally supplied by VW.  The folks at Bus
Depot have been so patient with me!  I've talked to them on the phone
and had email exchanges with Ron Salmon.  All of these correspondences
have been handled to my satisfaction.  What I came away with from the
correspondences was that Bus Depot and their employees truly wanted
their business to succeed and truly wanted their customers to be
satisfied. 

I just got a UPS notification of a backorder shipment of stuff from Bus
Depot that I needed quickly due to my body shop guy wanting them and the
fact that I'm really into immediate gratification.  The folks at Bus
Depot want to take care of us bus, camper and truck owners.  In this day
of dealing with mega-corporations who have no clue as to from where
their profit comes, or the fact that they send out a 10% coupon as a
routine "cost of doing business" for dissatisfied customers, I think
that Ron and his staff and his business are refreshing in their desire
to keep our buses on the road and in turn, succeed in their own
business.  I don't want to start another thread regaring Bus Depot.  I
just wanted to share my thoughts.  Thanks, Greg Thompson, Tallahassee,
Florida
