From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: "dogsbody" <dogsbody(-at-)telus.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 9 Sep 2003 21:05:34 -0500
Subject: Cooling tin placement & VW engine rebuild pictures

Hello dogsbody,

I am the eBay guy who sold you the extra rebuilt head that I accidentally
acquired (long story)

In reference to the pictures of tin placement on a Type IV for a bus, I have
a gazillion step by step high resolution digital pictures of a complete tear
down and rebuild. The pictures are about 700k each so you can zoom and zoom
and zoom to see the tiniest detail. I really should have sent you a disk
along with the head you bought. The pictures are too good to post to a web
site that lowers the image quality. If you want the images, I can mail them
to you on a CD, for free, to the USA address I sent the head. Or send me
your Canuck address off list. Let me know if you want the pictures CD.

You need more than images of all the tin. I sure hope you drew some nice
vacuum and wiring diagrams as you took everything apart. You have to make
good enough notes that you can understand them months down the line, because
sometimes every weird thing that can happen does happen to slow down the
rebuild. I label more than I need to label using permanent markers and
masking tape. I never take notes or mark anything on old carbureted bugs or
vans, but this was my first time with a VW Fuel Injection Type IV, so I
overdid the pictures and the notes and marks.

I did have a few problems with the rebuild which are worth mentioning And I
will include those pictures. I know you already have your case together, so
this is a warning for others. Somehow I grabbed a really long bearing pin
from my collection of parts from lots of engines. I am talking about one of
the five pins (dowels) that you put in the case under the main bearings. As
I was torquing the case together, it started to fail the "the crankshaft
must always turn freely" test. On all the engines I have rebuilt, I never
had one fail this test. The crank always turned easily as the case halves
were squashed more and more tightly together. I always do the test, but I
sure was surprised that it was getting harder and harder to turn the crank.
So I stopped and I unbolted the case and found a high spot rubbing mark on a
main bearing. Those pins are supposed to be a relatively loose fit on the
bearing. They keep the bearing halves from spinning in the case. The pin is
supposed to be shorter than the combined hole depth in the case and the hole
depth in the back of the bearing. The faulty pin was too long and it
bottomed against the case and against the back of the bearing and it pushed
into the back of the bearing and pushed the bearing into the crank journal.

Man is it a drag to have to clean off all that gasket compound, especially
when you think that you are not going to have to do it again until you split
the case after you have driven 150,000 miles. I had to buy a whole new set
of main bearings because I couldn't just buy the ruined half bearing shell.
I measured all the pins and I only used the shortest ones the next time I
torqued the case together and I had no problems with the rest of the rebuild
(although I did have to study my illegible notes and meaningless diagrams).

I installed the engine and it started up pretty quickly and smoked much less
than I expected. (I use STP on the piston and rings when I slide the
cylinders over the pistons and my rebuilt engines really smoke on startup).
The engine ran really well for = hour, then I stopped it , let it cool a
little, and I changed the oil. On rebuilds I change the oil (and filter) at
30 minutes, 300 miles, 3000 miles. The next day I started the engine and it
started great, reved smoothly, etc. but as soon as I started to walk back to
the engine, I heard a horrible knocking sound coming from the valve train. I
couldn't turn the engine off fast enough and the sound changed before I got
the engine off. On post mortem examination I found that the number 4
cylinder exhaust valve pushrod had come out of its rocker arm socket. The
pushrod got trapped under the rocker arm and it busted a chunk off the head.
I was so depressed about the ruined engine that I haven't taken it back
apart, and I started and finished every other project I could think of ,
instead of taking the engine back out and apart.

Consensus on this list, and with most experienced VW mechanics I have talked
to, is that the valve quit moving and got stuck down because it got tight
against its guide because of my failure to completely clean the gasoline
tank. The van had been sitting for 10 years plus and the gasoline had turned
to varnish. I did rinse the tank over and over with gasoline, etc. The
varnish contaminated fuel coated the valve stems with a "non-lubricant" and
the valves started hanging. This time I am going to take the tank out and
take it to a radiator shop to have it boiled. Or I might have it boiled in
the boiling lye vat my machinist uses on iron engines. So take your tank out
now and clean it and replace all the rubber tubing hidden inside the tank
compartment.

bye

ggm
