Cc: Type2(-at-)type2.com, list vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 2004 15:50:46 -0400
To: The Bug Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Everything you always wanted to know about Buses Of the Corn

Hi Volks,

Since the weather in Toronto has finally turned spring-like I thought 
it was time I sent out a reminder about Buses Of The Corn. Here's the 
deal:


WHEN AND WHERE:
The Fourth Annual Buses Of The Corn will be held August 6th to 8th, 
2004 near Whitby, Ontario Canada. That's about 25 minutes NE of 
Toronto, and within 3 hours of the border crossing at Buffalo.  The 
gates open Friday morning, and we have to be off the site by noon 
Sunday.


WHAT'S GOING ON:
This year the "Great Canadian Bug Show" is on hiatus, so we're adding a 
free swap meet to Saturday morning's agenda at BOTC. Other events will 
include a repeat of last year's very popular Tie-Dye Workshop, an 
authentic Full Moon Bus Club Burrito Breakfast, our 9-hole Frisbee Golf 
course, the popular Bus Driving Skillz Challenge, kids scavenger hunt, 
Corn Roast and pot-luck dinner, and campfire.


WHO CAN ATTEND:
All years of VW bus are welcome at the event. Factory original or home 
brewed, run-down beater or trailer queen... bring it on in! We have 
room for over 100 buses on the site. Kids, Adults and well-mannered 
pets are welcome.


COST:
Pre-registration is now open. www.germansupply.com has subsidized the 
camping fees so we are able to offer a full weekend of camping for just 
EIGHT CANADIAN DOLLARS. ($6.50US) This includes camping fees, Tie-Dye 
(bring your own shirt)  AND the cornroast. BOTC is a non-profit event; 
if there is any cash left over at the end it goes to support type2.com.


REGISTRATION:
Registration details are on the website at 
www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn. Registration payment  can be made by 
paypal, cheque or money order. Pre-registration before July 30th saves 
you $2, and helps me buy doorprizes and other goodies. After July 30th 
I will take payment at the gate.


FACILITIES:
Did you ever that phrase "You get what you pay for"? BOTC is proof of 
this statement. In order to deliver a campout as fun as BOTC for such 
an amazing low price, we cut a few corners. We have pit toilets, the 
kind without the flush. There are 4 coin-op shower stalls that 
thankfully do have hot water. Speaking of water... Thanks to new water 
regulations in Ontario, we have to bring our own drinking water. We 
keep coming back to this location because it's a nice quiet campsite 
well away from main roads, trains, airports and nosy neighbours. If 
numbers make it necessary I will bring in additional porta-potties to 
keep things sanitary.  Rules of the facility prohibit alcohol, 
firearms, fireworks, unleashed pets and loud noise after 11PM. As long 
as we keep it cool and follow "Red-Cup" protocols everyone will have a 
good time.


BOTC VS OTHER CAMPOUTS:
Really, it's not a contest. Campouts are places to have fun, relax, and 
enjoy the company of other VW owners. Since BOTC is the weekend after 
High Country Bus Festival and the weekend before Dixie Bus Gathering I 
would think that people interested in a road tripping vacation might 
want to bookend a week of Veedubbing with a campout at either end. It's 
about 16-18 hours driving from HCBF to BOTC, No big deal if you have a 
week to get there. The short route to Dixie Bus Gathering is less than 
8 hours, but there's no rule that says you can't make it longer. I 
think I'm taking the long way around Lake Michigan, just to say I did. 
Your milage may vary.


CANADA? IS THAT BORDER STILL OPEN?
Yes, the world's longest undefended border is still open and it is not 
at all difficult to cross. For most people these few simple rules 
apply:
1. Bring Photo-ID. Passports are not required for US Citizens, but if 
you already have one it can't hurt to bring it. A drivers license is 
fine. Children do not need photo-ID.
2. Leave your guns and non-prescription drugs at home. If you need to 
bring a prescription drug with you, be sure to bring the prescription, 
too.
3. If you are bringing a pet, be sure to bring proof of rabies 
vaccination within the past 12 months.


WHAT ABOUT SARS AND MAD-COW DISEASE??
1. SARS is officially extinct in Canada. China has a few cases, but 
there are NONE here.
2. Mad Cows are prohibited from the campground. No, really... you can 
bring your own burgers if you think it's a problem. (But it isn't.)


THE WEBSITE(S):

Buses Of the Corn website:
Visit http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn for more details, pics of 
previous camps, etc.

High Country Bus Festival website:
http://www.mindspring.com/~contecmidwest/index.html

DixieBus Gathering website:
http://www.geocities.com/dixie_bus_gathering/


If there's anything you need to know, want to donate (Door Prizes) or 
have to say about Buses Of The Corn, please email me at 
Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn


P.S.... Can someone please pass this along to the Vanagon List? 
THANKS!!!
