To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <Greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 30 Apr 2004 22:19:45 -0400
Subject: 2L with 72-74 Exhaust?

Hi Volks,

Here's a question for those running a 2L engine with 72-74 exhaust....

Last summer I installed a 2L engine (originally from my wife's sunroof 
bus) with 72-74 heater boxes into the westfakia. After it was installed 
  I discovered that the stock muffler collided with the bumper. So I 
switched to the bumper that was on the sunroof when it had that 2L in 
it, which was already cut-out to compensate. Problem solved.

Until recently. Since coming back from EveryBus the exhaust has been 
getting louder and louder. I figured it was time for a new muffler, no 
big deal. The one I installed last summer came with the sunroof motor, 
a 1974-style german muffler that was thoroughly coated in rust but 
seemed reasonably solid at the time.

This afternoon I took delivery of an  almost new BugPack Monza exhaust 
purchased for a reasonable price from eBay. The old muffler came out, 
the new one goes in. Almost. I can't fit it properly because the 
collector pipes on the muffler are colliding with the fan shroud. 
AAAARRRRGGHHHH!!!!!!!  Did I mention there's a car show on Sunday I 
want to attend?

What a huge PITA. Is there some variance between cylinder heads or 
heater boxes between model years that would cause this kind of 
alignment issue, or is this BugPack Monza simply a very poorly designed 
muffler???  I know I have had this type of muffler on my buses before, 
but I can't say for certain if I have used this exact make and model.

POSTLUDE:.
PITA #2 -- On closer examination, there are no problems with the 
original muffler. It's rusty but still solid. The flanges show no signs 
of leakage around the gaskets either. Climbing underneath the bus I am 
able to determine two additional facts... First, the #2 exhaust studs 
were both loose enough that I could see about 1mm of play in the heater 
box. I have snugged up those bolts and fixed that. Secondly, I have 
discovered that my pushrod tube seals are not doing there job, which 
explains why I went through 2.5L of oil coming home from EveryBus.

Tomorrow I will go to the flaps and get some fresh muffler nuts and 
bolt it back up the way it was. Anyone want to buy a fresh BugPack 
Monza Muffler? So far I have about $60US invested in it.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn
