From: "Budd Premack" <bpremack(-at-)mn.rr.com>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 2 May 2004 03:50:51 -0500
Subject: 5-22 VW Campout in Lanesboro, MN

Last fall a small group of VW enthusiasts banded together for a campout
in Lanesboro, MN.  Despite a persistent drizzle, these intrepid souls
constructed a common shelter and were rewarded with the sight of a double
rainbow.  It was then determined that future gatherings would be designated
as the "Over the Rainbow Campout."

We are happy to announce that the 2004 VW Over the Rainbow Campout is just
ahead!

Date: Saturday and Sunday, May 22-23, 2004

Location: Eagle Cliff Campground at Lanesboro, MN
130 miles southeast of the Twin Cities, an easy 2 1/2 hour drive

Time: Noon Saturday through Sunday afternoon

Join us for a fun weekend in the scenic Bluff Country along the Root River
of southeastern Minnesota. We will camp in our own section of a
well-equipped private campground. Facilities include shaded campsites with
electrical hook-ups, picnic tables and fire pits, heated bathrooms with
showers, covered picnic shelter, and playground.

This time we will camp in our own secluded section, on the banks of the
scenic, cliff-rimmed, Root River.  A few sites have electricity, so bring
extension cords.

Activities in the immediate area include 60 miles of paved bike trails,
fishing,
rafting, canoeing, and tubing along the Root River.  All equipment is
available for rent if you choose not to bring your own.  Substantial
shopping
opportunities (including Amish goods) abound in historic Lanesboro and
nearby communities.

Schedule:

Friday
Unofficial earlybird opportunity for those who desire a full weekend camping
experience.

Saturday
12:00 noon - Gather together and Lunch (bring your own) at campground
1:00 P.M. - Caravan through the winding byways to your choice of several
unique attractions.  These activites are appropriate for all ages and
physical abilities. The remainder of the afternoon is open for your choie of
activities. Please be sure your vehicle has enough gas for a 100 mile drive.
Although we anticipate a much shorter journey, some of us have been known to
get lost, and others may simply enjoy exploring the winding byways along our
route.
6:00 P.M.(approximately) - Dinner at campground, followed by campfire

Sunday
A.M. - Breakfast at campground.  Churches of various denominations are
located in Lanesboro.
P.M. - Choice of activities, with potential caravan back to Twin Cities or
other common destinations.

Cost: $15 per campsite (1-2 persons, $5 extra for electricity).  Extra
adults are $7.50, children are $3.

Please check in at campground office with Gail as you arrive.  You will be
directed to our special camping area.

The campground website is www.eaglecliff-campground.com  Please check this
for specific campground directions and information.

All Vanagon, Eurovan and VW Bus enthusiasts are welcome. You need not even
arrive in a VW; fellowship, not rules, is the primary concern.  Tent sites
are available in our group area, rv sites are nearby, and lodging is
available both at the campground and in nearby Lanesboro. If you can't come
for the entire event, please drop in whenever you can. Bring your own food,
firewood, and all other preferred gear and equipment. Grocery, hardware, and
numerous other stores and eating establishments are located in Lanesboro.

Directions:
Eagle Cliff Campground is located on MN Highway 16, just 3 miles east of
Lanesboro, MN.  Lanesboro is 40 miles southeast of Rochester, MN.  If you
are coming from the Twin Cities, take U.S. 52 through Rochester, continue
southeast 34 miles to Fountain, MN, go east 8 miles on Filmore County Road 8
to Lanesboro, turn right (south) on the main street (Parkway Avenue) for 1/2
mile to MN 16, go east 3 miles on MN Highway 16 to Eagle Cliff Campground.
(If you get to Whalen, MN, turn around, as you have gone 1 mile too far
east.)  Access from Iowa and points south is via U.S. 52 through Decorah, IA
to Canton, MN, go north 13 miles on Filmore County Road 21 to Lanesboro, go
east 3 miles on MN Highway 16 to Eagle Cliff Campground.

The success of any gathering of this type depends chiefly upon those
attending. We hope you will take the opportunity to become a member of this
annual event and join your fellow VW enthusiasts in a fun-filled, relaxing
weekend getaway. As a special added bonus, Carol's famous homemade chocolate
chip cookies may again be available.

Please address any questions to bpremack(-at-)mn.rr.com   In order to assist in
planning, PLEASE RSVP as soon as practical. However, there is plenty of room
available, so late responses or even drop-ins are welcome. Please feel free
to forward this message to any interested party.


Budd and Carol Premack
86 Syncro, 88 Wolfsburg
Land of Sky-Blue Waters
Minneapolis, MN

Chuck and Barb Hill
(too many VWs to list)
Beautifully Rural Dysart, IA
