Date: Mon, 26 Apr 2004 21:15:33 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <busbarn(-at-)Prodigy.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Bus AC option

I would like some input on this subject, I've kicked this around and it
seems doable, but would like some "expert" opinions.

I would like to AC a couple busses, one is a '76 westy, the other a '63
standard.  A full blown system is expensive, parts will be around $2,000.
On a teacher's salary, that is more than I can afford.  Not to mention a lot
of work involved.

We pull a small camper called a Scamp with the '76 westy currently, but will
use the '63 standard after conversion to diesel power.  The Scamp uses a
small inexpensive window unit hidden inside the body of the camper, all you
can see from the outside is a vent.

These new small units are pretty efficient and inexpensive.  I was looking
at Sam's the other day and they have 12,000 BTU units that pull only 1,280
watts no kidding and for only $240.

What I am thinking is this, the window behind the driver seat could be
removed, the AC unit could sit on the counter top and duct both the intake
and exhaust air through vents where the window used to be.  On the bay bus,
half window, half vent would be possible, on the splitty, one window would
be enough.

Inside the bus a small wooden cabinet could be built around the unit to hide
it.  In the splitty, I would make a floor to ceiling cabinet and include a
TV for the rear passengers along with some extra storage.

To power the ac unit, I was thinking of this:

http://www.donrowe.com/inverters/aims_2500.html

I'm sure an extra alternator will need to be added to the engine (like in
the ambulance) and an extra battery as well for peak draw.

What do you think?  I could have the entire system for less than $700-800.
Not to mention, when camping I could just plug in and have the ac ready to
go.

Down side, the ac will sit on the stove cabinet, so I'll need to cook
outside (which I do anyway, or cook in the Scamp), but a cabinet behind the
drivers head shouldn't be a problem.  Sitting on the cabinet will give the
ac the correct height to mix the upper hot air.
