From: "Gene Cornelius" <mizamook(-at-)starband.net>
To: "Buskatiers" <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 29 Apr 2004 01:46:40 -0700
Subject: New Bus!  '66 Standard-Issue Rustbucket

The fifth addition to my bus herd arrived today...it didn't want to come at
first, but I think it will be happier with other (running) buses than moping
forlornly under redwoods, waiting for the earth to take it back (which
process is pretty well under way) .

I got to break in a friend's brand-new Kimbrough tow-bar, and tow a bus
which hasn't moved since '85 with a vehicle that isn't registered...and I
escaped the wrath of the CHP...there's one good reason to live in the
sticks....not enough action for the nice ocifers.

The bus is sorta wierd...it sez '66 on the pink slip, but it has bumpers
like a '65...I ran the M-codes...it's a '66 model year, built in Oct. '65,
so maybe the front was replaced a long time ago.  Could be...the nose has a
hole (from a sharp impact) and some denting.

The driver's side floor isn't at all, and the doors are stuck shut (both
front doors and rear hatch).  Cargo doors are sorta openable, but not
closeable...at least the front one is.  The back one needs more time with
Liquid Wrench.

All wheels were locked up tight.  It didn't take too long for me to get the
rear ones loose, but the fronts were another story.  I had to do bad things
to make them turn.  I bent the backing plates away, and squirted LW, and
banged on the metal of the shoes through the lug holes and the adjustment
holes.  Got them barely turnable to be able to move them all the way around
by hand, and then towed.  I killed the threads of one lug hole on each drum
by using an allen wrench as a thing to bang on, and possibly the drums are
toast because I used the cold chisel and BFH method to entice the drums to
start moving.  Maybe salvageable, but maybe not.  The backing plates are
burnt toast.

The dash has a Stuttgart emblem on it with a neat rearing horse, and an
AM/FM Blaupunkt radio, which I hope works, despite the apparent ingress of
lots of water over time.  From glancing at the battery hanging through where
there is supposed to be a battery sitting, I surmise that the electricals
are 6v.  I want to say the dash is unmolested, but I might be wrong, but I
think it's all good.  Bench seat, an amazing amount of cargo floor is there,
engine is a solid hunk of metal.  At least all the glass, lights, headlamp
assemblies are complete!

It has a full-length roof rack on it, which I will remove and de-rust,
POR-15, and then put on my other '66.

I have three '66 buses!  Isn't that wierd?  I guess not.  So now maybe I
should go deal with that other guy in the area...he's got a '67 Samba,
nuclear puke green, mold, rust, etc. Then I can line up a '66 SO-42, '66
SO-44, '66 Standard, '60 Doublecab, and a '61 SO-34, and take a cool
picture.

Hey...so if anyone wants a dove-blue Standard, in need of MUCh love, let me
know before I work on it!  (My labor rates are high  ; > )


Gene Cornelius
mizamook(-at-)starband.net
