From: "Russ Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: "David Schwarze" <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "David Kelly" <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
Date: Mon, 18 Nov 2002 07:43:54 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] RE: Odd question, How much hp does it really take 

I'm not sure what the original poster was thinking either, so perhaps I
jumped to the wrong conclusion.  I agree with you, there would be
difficulties in trying to come up with a scheme to switch the compressor
drive from motor to engine and back.  Clever design along with accurate and
robust fabrication would probably result in a workable arrangement.

However, I would be concerned that the starting current for a 2 HP motor
would be too much for the typical 110 V circuit found at a campground.
According to the National Electrical Code (NFPA-70), a campground featuring
tent sites is required to have one 15 or 20 ampere circuit at each site,
while RV parks are required to have a minimum of one 20 ampere circuit, with
some sites required to have one 30 ampere circuit, and some others required
to have a 50 ampere 120/240 V circuit.  The breakdown is specified as
percentages of the total number of sites at the RV park.

Consider this:  A 2 HP motor at 110 V (assuming .8 effiency and .8 power
factor) would draw  (2 HP X 746 W/HP)/(.8 eff. X .8 pf X 110V) = 21 amps
continuous at rated horsepower.  Starting current (assuming a typical kVA
code G motor) would be in the range of 6 to 7 times full load, or at least
127 amperes. Couple that with the fact that compressors can be mechanically
difficult loads to start (high breakaway torque), and this may present a
problem load for the lowest rated campground 110 V AC circuit, and could be
a problem for some of the higher rated ones as well, depending on the motor
acceleration time/current characteristic vs the breaker/fuse time/current
characteristic.

Also, AC induction motors typically do not make maximum torque at or near 0
rpm.  DC motors and AC series wound brush type motors (typically found in
portable power tools) do exhibit such behavior, but induction motors have a
torque curve that peaks somewhere around 60 to 80 % synchronous speed
(depending on the NEMA design letter and other factors, like actual vs rated
power system voltage).  Below that speed, the torque drops off.  While it is
true that most induction motors will, if required, produce something in
excess of 100% rated torque at 0 rpm, they can develop even more torque at
peak torque rpm.  Of course, peak torque is not sustainable and will cause
overheating if the motor is loaded that way for too long.

Anyway, I would be skeptical about running a 2 HP motor off of a campground
circuit.  In my opinion, 1 HP is the practical limit for a 20 ampere
circuit - my 2 cents.

-----Original Message-----
From: David Schwarze [mailto:schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net]
Sent: Saturday, November 16, 2002 11:57 PM
To: rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com; type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: David Kelly
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: Odd question, How much hp does it really take (a/c
question)


At 05:48 AM 11/15/2002, Russ Neithammer wrote:

>Assuming that the 1.5 HP figure is correct/realistic, an electric motor
>providing that much power at 12 volts will draw 116 amperes continuously
>(assuming 80% efficiency of the motor).  I calculated this as follows: (1.5
>HP X 746 watts/HP)/(.8 efficiency X 12 V).

Russ,

I'm assuming the original poster was thinking like me - in other words,
thinking of a way to run the A/C with the engine off.  A 110V electric motor
of sufficient size should be able to drive the compressor while parked (at a
campground, with electricity say) if the mechanical problems could be
eliminated (like how to easily switch the compressor drive over to the
electric motor from the engine and vice versa).


>The power to get a motor started is not usually thought of in terms of
>horsepower, but rather, the torque the motor must produce and the resulting
>current it must draw, in order to break away from stop and accelerate to
>rated speed. This starting current can be expected to be in the range of 2
>to 3 times the rated full load current for a DC motor, higher (like, 6
times
>full load current) for an AC induction motor).

But not for a mechanical device like an A/C compressor.  The inductive load
of the  driving motor is not a concern since there is (presumably) plenty of
power available for it (again, assuming 110V source).  Fortunately, electric
motors make their maximum torque at or near 0 rpm and are thus well-suited
to handle any startup requirements of the compressor, assuming they can also
turn it at a reasonable rpm.

I think it's do-able, and some day I will make a serious effort to get it
working.  I already acquired a 220V (oops) 3/4hp motor at a swap meet for
experimentation, but I think it is likely too small.

-David
