Date: Mon, 18 Nov 2002 15:05:51 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Daniel Winkert <winkwink2000(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] power trip

>1. Is it worth just changing the brushes on the generator? Or should I just
>replace the whole generator? How do I know if it needs just brushes or if the
>generator is shot?

I would check the generator. You may have dead brushes (easy to test) or a 
shorted generator (replacement time). With the generator running (engine 
running) use a #2 pencil to push down on the brushes. If the brushes are 
worn but functional (just not touching like they should) the generator 
should spring to life. Muir has a pretty good first timer explanation on 
how to test the generator.

Really, really, really there is little reason to swap your generator with 
one off the shelf unless it has an internal short. The bearings can be 
replaced, the brushes can be replaced, and life goes on for substantially 
less money than a rebuilt generator. Rebuilt these days means cleaning, 
minor testing (like mentioned above), and replacement of only the worn 
parts. All for $$$. You can do all this for yourself!

The other test involves doing a continuity test on the generator to see if 
each of the segments of the generator is working properly. Bentley will 
have the procedure I think. I have not done this for years and I am without 
a shop manual on hand so i can't advise. Basic electrical test meter with 
the continuity test function.

>2. If I just replace the brushes, should I still change out the voltage
>regulator? I know to change it if I need a new generator.

Your voltage regulator may be the whole problem.

>3. Could any of the running on pure battery have damaged my starter? Or is the
>starter/ignition trouble be coincidental?  I will eventually do the tests on
>the starter from the Type2 library. Just wondering if I should go ahead and
>oredr the starter when I order the rest.

Can't hurt the starter unless you were rolling the engine over long term 
with less (substantially less) voltage than normal. Still I don't expect 
that you hurt it.

>4. Could any of this have damaged my coil or any other charging components?

No. Either there is enough power available or not. If there was lower 
voltage than normal any motors would have run at a slower pace (one way you 
slow a motor is with less voltage).

It may not start because the ignition system was so weak that the spark 
plugs are fouled out - too weak to burn off the soot and carbon in the 
combustion chamber.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
