Date: Mon, 18 Nov 2002 23:19:24 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Don Manzano <don_manzano(-at-)surewest.net>
Subject: Valve and Rod job... I think.

Hi Everyone,

Last Thursday, when I was driving "Bess the Bus", a sound from the engine 
came forth.  It sounded like all a boulder was rumbling in the 
engine.  Another way to describe it is, it sounded like a LOUD aluminum can 
be crushed in the engine.  I did not feel any loss of power and  at 
mid-range RPM's the noise went away.  I opened up the Muir book to 
investigate and it sounds like I am lucky I made it home.  I was only about 
8 miles from home when I heard the noise.  BTW, when I got home there was 
no black smoke or awful smell.

On page 237 of my edition of the Muir book it states that I have "rod 
knock".  I called the Bus Boys today (BTW, I think they are very helpful, 
Bus Depot too, just my two cents) and the gentleman guessed that it might 
be a blown valve seat.  So I am in for my first engine pull I think.

My question is, does anyone have any suggestions on what to look for?
While the engine is out, does anyone have any recommendations on what 
should be replaced?

I purchased Bess in Sept and she came with a library of receipts.  Looking 
though them, Bess had new heads put in last year but the labor notes state 
this "intake valves are sunken into the head, seats feel tight but appear 
to be moving in the head".  The $2900 repair bill states that the shop 
replaced the heads but not the valve assemblies.  Does that sound 
right?  Maybe this is the problem.

I have about $450 dollars to start fixing Bess and pull the engine.  Can 
anyone guess if that will be enough money?  I would hate to pull the engine 
and discover I am going to need more money then I have, I would rather 
leave her in the garage until I raise the funds.

Other notes that might help.
78 2.0 manual transmission
no smoke when the noise started, no apparent loss of power, but I drive it 
like a baby.
there was plenty of oil in it when I got home
no red/green or other lights went on when the noise started.
Bess made the noise all the way home unless I was at midrange RPM's

Thanks very much in advance,
Don Manzano
