Date: Tue, 19 Nov 2002 14:22:00 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Re:Valve and Rod job... I think.

>It's so easy even a girl can do it. Wow! I should forward this to my
>girlfriend.

So easy that a first timer could do it - that was at the time what my wife
was. Has nothing to do with gender issues. Your girlfriend could do it and
so could the guy down the street with 2 left feet and a green thumb with a
decent tech manual some patience.

>What is this about $150 for all the books and tools you'll ever need. First
>don't waist $60.00 of your precious $150.00 on the 3 (most important) basic
>test tools - "multimeter ($15), dwell meter ($20), a timing light ($25)".
>This after the Bentley manual ($34.95) leaves you $55.05 before tax for hmmm
>maybe a cheap set of sockets.
>
>Please don't set this guy off on the wrong track. A decent set of basic
>tools to attempt this sort of job is more along the bal park of $500-$700.
>That's Craftsman too.

Listen - the list has been down this track before. You don't need
Craftsman, you don't need Snap-On. You need whatever you can get your hands
on. If it doesn't break or round off the corners of the nuts and bolts you
are working on it did it's job.

I've used the fancy tools and they are CERTAINLY NICE but they don't get
the job done any better for me. If I was turning wrenches each and everyday
for a living I might care more. As nice as they are they aren't as nice as
their price implies - to me. Everyone gets their option to their own opinion.

I've done plenty of work over the years without ANY tool investment - I
BORROWED tools I didn't have. I've got a set of decent Chinese wrenches
that I got when I was 14 and bought my first car. That was in 1984. All but
maybe 1 or 2 are still in excellent shape after working on cars for almost
2 decades so far. There are junk import tools to be sure but a first timer
doesn't need a set of the best or even very good. A set of tools that would
last this repair alone would be enough but of course that would be a waste
of money. Muir has a list of basic tools you'd need for many repair jobs. I
know I'd need more than that but not much more.

And before anyone launches an attack on Muir - its a simple book for first
timers that has great value. He does a good job of explaining what the
basic parts of the car is. Pretty good for folks that don't even known
where the ignition coil is or what it does. The manual was worthwhile when
these cars were new and continues to be a good first timer manual when used
with the Bentley as a back up. It is not without a few flaws - thus the
Bentley. Talked me through my first VW escapades when I lived in a country
where no one I knew spoke English and could explain how to tune my Beetle.

I have a dwell meter (cheap $20), timing light (cheap $25), and a digital
multimeter (cheap $15) that I have been using since 1990 with no problems.
I bought them in Italy and they have travelled with me everywhere. Lot's of
miles in my toolbox and probably over a hundred tuneups. I've got less than
$75 in the three of them. They were new when they joined my toolbox. I've
checked their accuracy recently and they are right on. No doubt not
suitable for professional use but for maybe 5 tuneups a year (mine and
friends') I expect them to last another decade or so.

Don't forget there are used tools available at pawn shops and used books on
the web. Not to mention E-bay and garage sales. Last summer I bought a $129
Raytech (?) infrared temp gun with a fresh battery for $10 and a sound
level meter (NEW Sears) for $10 at a different garage sale. Buy basic and
replace with better if you break it, wear it out, or find better for cheap.

Engine rebuild - what kind of tools? A few wrenches or sockets (10mm, 13mm,
15mm, 17mm, 19mm). Torque wrench - borrow (free) or buy a cheap beam type
for $10. Jack borrow (free) or buy ($50?). Work light ($10). Screwdrivers -
4 tops (small flat, medium flat, small phillips, medium phillips). Feeler
gauges for adjusting valves ($5 bought a set the other day). Piston ring
compressor ($10 for the cheap version you squeeze with pliers, I bought one
that requires an allen wrench for $10). There are certainly a few more...

Still not much more than $150 if that much. Still much less than the $450
prices quoted to the newbie from the mechanics. I'm not saying mechanics
aren't worth their $$$ but if you don't have the bucks to pay them they
aren't worth anything to YOU at that TIME. They are hardly ever worth
anything to me because I've got 15 years experience doing my own work and
work for others. Every time I've used one I find missing fasteners and all
sorts of tiny details important to me.

I've worked on Chevy from 1930 and up, VW from 1957 and up (watercooled
too), Chrysler, Ford (1930 and up), Fiat, Lancia, Toyota, Honda,
Nissan/Datsun, Maserati, Mercedes, BMW, Citrokn, Renault, Porsche
(watercooled and aircooled), Audi, Volvo, Saab, AMC, Subaru, Packard,
Cadillac, Dodge, Austin-Healey, MG, Pontiac, Triumph, etc. This includes a
handful of motorcycles (Hodaka, Honda, Kawasaki, Suzuki, Vespa, H-D
(yuck)). Never needed anything but my mismatched ragtag collection of
random tools. Those cheap tools fit everything I worked on.

I don't need a brand name tool - just one that works. If it doesn't I take
it back and buy better.

>A couple hours to pull the motor and slap it back? I would love to see that
>done by a first timer or even a pro for that matter. Yes that is what we
>charge for a labor rate to pull and reinstall but it always takes way
>longer. A beginner needs to set aside a whole day and a helping hand for
>each of the tasks. Aside from problems that is.

Yeah - I can pull a Beetle motor in 25 minutes or less. I can pull a bus
motor in under 2 hours easy with the tools lined up and ready. A first
timer could do it in anything between 2 hours and 3 weeks. Depends on how
motivated they are I suppose more than anything. I've had simple jobs take
all day because I did not have the "perfect" tool and was too lazy to
remove something that was in the way.

>  "Hang in there. You can do it. We're here for you."............. Do you
>work for Checker?

You got a problem with being friendly and encouraging? I don't know this
fellow from anyone - he maybe really worried and upset or his message may
have just sounded like a first timer - limitations of e-mail. I'll assume
the worst and say he's a first timer who thinks he's at the end of his rope
with this problem. If I'm wrong he can do what he wants - it's his bus
obviously.

Lighten up. Your message was mighty sarcastic. I welcome all the first
timer questions - we were all a first timer somewhere along the way. No
questions are too dumb to ask. I'll help anyone that wants to help
themselves if I can.

So in fact - hang in there, anyone can do it, and I'm here if anyone wants
to write and ask a question.

Good day.

Chris M. in TN

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
