From: Ceebers24mVB(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 19 Nov 2002 16:18:26 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Restoring my beloved Bus..(1st attempt) LONG.

Hey everybody,

I would like to thank everyone for the advice and answers to my many 
questions. I really feel that I can get the advice I need out of the volks in 
this list..

Well.....I figure I will just write some stuff about what I am currently 
doing....

  My name is Chris, and live in Virginia Beach, Va, once again, after living 
out in Blacksburg, Va at VaTech while I schooled it up for 5 years. I have 
had my Bus for about 7 years now. 
    A lot of my buddies have gone through busses like they were changing 
underpants. Always working on it for a while, getting frustrated, and selling 
it, only to get a new "project." As you can understand, this vicious cycle 
just keeps on going...
    My bus,... I am keeping it. Just like Barry White said, " My first, my 
last, my everything..." So....I plan on going to grad school in January, 
right here at ODU. I worked at the bicycle shop, where I have worked since I 
was 14, through the last year, and took off last month so I can take 3 months 
to get my bus up to snuff.
    Currently, I have the engine and tranny out, all the interior, windows, 
rubber...etc... The only thing that is still in is the driver's seat, the 
steering wheel, and the dash. (although I am considering taking out the dash, 
it looks pretty menacing with all the wires)
    I got a buddy who runs the body shop at a local big GMC/Chevy/Honda 
joint, who owes me a big favor. He is going to paint the bus for me, to the 
T. All I have to do,....is the bodywork. Man, I had no idea how hard it is to 
do bodywork, at least on my bus, anyway. It seems like every time I take 
something out, there is more rust and stuff to deal with. 
    I got a welder, who is a friend of a good friend, who is supposed to come 
by tomorrow or the next day and tell me how much he is going to charge me to 
replace the rockers, left rear wheelhouse, and what ever else is going to 
need to go.
    I imagine this is going to be somewhat expensive, but I really don't 
care. My bus has taken me to Canada twice, to Cali, to Colorado, to 
Louisiana, and Southern Florida, all without any real problems, other than a 
blown cylinder head in Maine. I feel like for all the good times this van has 
given me, the least I can do is treat her to a full makeover.

So, as for now, I am just scuffing up the paint on the nose, pulled the dent 
out from the front tire mount today, too. Tomorrow, I think I am going to 
pull the dash out. I already took the top metal part off, just need to take 
out the vinyl part. I think the best way for me to be able to rewire it 
correctly is to mark all the disconnected wires with labeled masking tape, 
and a series of digital pictures. I try following the wiring diagram in the 
Bentley, and I just get lost. I was an electrical engineering minor 
too!..talk about a sad state of affairs! hahaha.
    I will let you all know how it is going from time to time, and I am sure 
I will be asking for some advice, and more importantly, enthusiasm! This gets 
really monotonous, so I need a little encouragement from you volks! Thanks 
for reading, and thanks for being there.

Chris Brooks
Virginia Beach, Va.
757-343-8223 cell anytime.
1974 \X/esty Hightop-BreadBox
