Date: Tue, 19 Nov 2002 19:12:59 -0800 (PST)
From: Matt No Choice <matt_no_choice(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: vws, rebuttal and goodbye

Air-cooled Volkswagens are, to me, as much philosophy
as vehicle. Any person with the wherewithal to make
his or her own repairs can learn to diagnose and
repair at least 90% of vehicle issues in his or her
own driveway at *very* minimal cost. Over the years,
I've owned 4 bugs and 4 busses, and have been
delighted with the minimal cost of upkeep and the
freedom from mechanics, who are, alas, fallible, and
sometimes even outright unethical. 

The other big draw of these vehicles is the community
they foster. The spirit of DIY is exemplified by the
owners of air-cooled VWs, who also take time to share.
It seems every mechanically-minded person who raises a
wrench to one gives freely any hard-won knowledge,
especially via the internet. Helpful information
abounds, usually given in a fresh, informal way - one
finds little defeatist, negative information. 

I am very new to your list, and found a sarcastic post
which also included advertising, which I'd read in
your charter is frowned upon. I mentioned that this
poster was "coming down" on another poster (who did
deftly answer all charges AND mention the negative
tone of the post, I might add) -- and was accused of
*attacking* said gentleman. *Bandwidth* (my message
weighing in at ONE kilobyte, a single sentence devoted
to said "attack") was being *wasted*, according to the
response.

This is my long goodbye to your list, whose purpose
I'd understood to be the sharing of information (which
was the thrust of my message; the rest of that
kilobyte was a few ideas and encouragement to the
person with the problem). Instead it seems to be the
propagation of certain ideas, from certain people. I
would understand better if the advertisers contributed
money toward the list's upkeep, but found no
disclaimer explaining that to be the case. 

When people are discouraged from doing their own
wrenching and told the tools to remove an engine will
cost $500 (!), that would seem to invalidate the
entire purpose. 

Hopefully I've not wasted too much bandwidth here. I
urge you to consider my words. 
