To: bpierce(-at-)shaka.com
Cc: bluesky6(-at-)ix.netcom.com,vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com,
Date: Tue, 19 Nov 2002 22:59:35 -0600
From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: [VB] using a cyl head temp sensor for oil temp?

This may be stating the obvious but I want to be real clear on this. 
Does this mean I can put my cylinder head temp sensor anywhere on the 
head?  Obviously beneath tin and out of direct air flow?
 
Bradley
'79 bus
 --------------------------------- Clip ---------------------
Porsche places the CHT under a cylinder head bolt. 
The VDO spark plug ring can be used under a bolt head as well.
If you wanted to find the hottest or coldest point on the head I wouldn't
know where to tell you to look.
I'd think that placing the ring under any upper cylinder bolt should
yield approximately the same temperatures. 
Airflow in the area should have very little effect since the heat is
per-se sandwiched around the sender ring.
On type IV engines the #3 cylinder tends to run the hottest and that is
where they put the sender.
I think the spark plug location is just a second choice since it can
damage the sender but it seems that the CHT is a secondary thought and
its just a simpler installation location.
You might check the Vanagon Archives  http://gerry.vanagon.com/archives/
there has been much discussion about the proper location.
I'm satisfied that I'm reading temperatures properly. They temperatures
may be 50 degrees or more off but what I'm looking for is any rapid rise
and any consistent temperature that I perceive as out of the ordinary
range that I see in normal usage.
If you want to try a CHT sender as an oil sender I can only ask why. The
Oil temp senders are about $15.00 and the CHT senders are about $12.00.
I have seen single gages that have a switch so you can read several
senders on the same gage by rotating the switch to the proper location.
In effect you could read all four CHT senders on a 4 cylinder with one
gage with a 4 position rotary switch.
The difference between a CHT sender (a thermo coupler that generates a
minuscule charge) vs a Oil Sender that operates with engine current and
operates on resistance just doesn't seem to make them interchangeable.

Stan Wilder
