From: "Joel Bidinger" <JoelBidinger(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "buslist" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Tue, 26 Mar 2002 23:05:07 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] carb jetting - new concept for me ??

Diana-
Sounds like your problem is bigger than just carb jetting, but taking
a look at your main jet is an easy thing to do. Pull the fuel bowl
drain plug, be ready to catch the cup of gas that will flow out. If a
lot of crud comes out, your main jet may be clogged and therefore
behaving a lot smaller than it should be. The mains is the jet in the
fuel bowl accessable through that drain plug. I am not familiar with
the Bocar carb, but I believe VW jetted the Solex 30PICT1 with a 125
mains for the 1500 engine. Sounds real big to me, but like I said, I
am not familair with this carb. It used a little 55 pilot jet and no
aux jet, so that might be the reason for the big mains. Your
overheating sounds like more than a jetting issue.
Questions:
Is your timing right? This can cause havoc with overheating. Dizzy
adavancing as it should?
Is your fuel pump putting out sufficient fuel? Not enough fuel will
run your engine lean, regardless of jetting.
Your oil cooler - new or old? These things do get clogged up and lose
efficiency, especially if it came from an engine that threw a rod or
somesuch. little metal bits could be plugging it up good.
Oil pressure relief - if this is stuck in the wrong place it won't
even send oil to the cooler, that could explain a lot.
And the big question, where is this 260degree number come from? Are
you sure it is accurate? That is really really hot, I am not even sure
oil is doing any good at that temp. Can you borrow a second gauge /
sender and compare?
I think you should tach your engine too, if you have a bug fourth gear
you might be pulling a lot higher rpms at 55 than you think, this
would make much heat.
I hope something here helps, and I hope you get the problem solved
before you get hit with the blown engine blues, because at super high
temps it is going to happen sooner or later...
Good luck,
Joel


----- Original Message -----
From: "Diana K." <burning.girl(-at-)telus.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Tuesday, March 26, 2002 5:12 PM
Subject: [VB] carb jetting - new concept for me ??


Hi all,
I've noticed several mentions of correct carburetor jetting and have
to
admit I'm pretty clueless about it.  I am wondering if perhaps this is
the
source of my persistent overheating (running at around 260+ in summer
on
long (2 hours or more) highway drives at speeds of 50-55mph).

The carb I am using is a Bocar 30 pict-1, sold by Cal Imports as a
Solex but
I guess it's an aftermarket equivalent???  Straight out of the box
about 3
years ago.  I'm running a 1600 sp engine, 009 distributor.  Anyone
have a
guess as to whether I need to change the jet?  And are we talking
about the
one behind the float bowl drain plug or???

Thanks in advance,
Diana
'66 Westy


---------------------------------------------------------------------
To unsubscribe, e-mail: vintagebus-unsubscribe(-at-)type2.com
For additional commands, e-mail: vintagebus-help(-at-)type2.com
Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html



