From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 27 Mar 2002 11:09:36 EST
To: matchka(-at-)earthlink.net, burning.girl(-at-)telus.net
Subject: Re: [VB] carb jetting - new concept for me ??

P&C  - sounds great!  you want the engine to warm up fast - I believe you can 
thank it being 90 degreees and having a thermostat set up-   remember with 
the thermostat closed almost no air is blowing over the cs/heads so it warms 
up quickly.   200* freeway temp also sounds great.  Is this the temp it stays 
at over time?
what's the problem?

then 260 degreees is real different than 200.
Diana- do you know what your compression ratio is?  I buildt my motor with a 
7.3 (or was it 7.5?) to 1 ratio- and it got 230F at the hottest- on a hot day 
climbing hills in Arizona.   I also have the type IV doghouse and cleaned all 
the flashing out of the head fins when assembling the motor.  the amount of 
flashing casting leftovers was truly incredible when I looked at the pile of  
filings.   definately cooler at 2600 to 2800rpms than higher or lower rpms.  
Is the temp guage on- does it fully sizzle immediately evaporate when you 
spit on the hot engine?   260 you should feel the heat emanating from it.  
You may want to try using larger crank pulley/smaller gen pulley- they made a 
number of stock sizes.  measure yours and swap it for a larger one?  What 
rpms are you doing at 55?  did you ever tach it out?  I had a bug 4th in my 
65 westy when I got it- I had no idea- afaik it was stock.  You may want to 
run 15" rims and bigger tires if it is geared low.  some engine runn hotter 
than others.

I accidently found out how to use a pulley for small diameter gen on a later 
gen- its in another engine - had to use a smaller fan belt- not enough info 
yet on that set up.

A lean jetted carb can make it hotter, but rich would make it slightly 
cooler.  You can check the plugs for colour.

>> I've noticed several mentions of correct carburetor jetting and have to
>> admit I'm pretty clueless about it.  I am wondering if perhaps this is the
>> source of my persistent overheating (running at around 260+ in summer on
>> long (2 hours or more) highway drives at speeds of 50-55mph).
> 
stock, stock, stock, stock, stock, new (oil cooler), don't think so, tranny
is stock AFAIK... also I don't go over 55 plus slowing down doesn't make a
significant difference, I've driven at 40mph in the desert and still had
temps over 260... cooling tin all there...  I think I've ruled out all the
etc's which is why I'm asking about the carb jetting.  Guess I have to pull
out all the jets that are in the carb and look at them?  Are the sizes
stamped on them?

In a message dated 3/26/02 9:03:57 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
matchka(-at-)earthlink.net writes:

<< 
 It was in the 90's, windy, so we went downtown about 5 miles.  When it
 hit 120 deg I checked it and the louvers were open.  It got up to about
 180deg - good operating temp.  It sat downtown at a block party for an
 hour, then it restarted great and we headed for the freeway.  Through
 town the temp headed for 180 again, then 2 miles down the freeway,
 slight down hill, wind behind us, it climbed to 200 deg.
 
 We have not taken it uphill yet, maybe this morning.

 Any idea what I could have missed that the temps are still going up
 fast???
  >>
