From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Wed, 27 Mar 2002 20:18:43 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] corner window seal replacement

replaced the left corner window this afternoon.  It had a chip in it when I 
bought the bus, which turned into a crack pretty much top to bottom on a 
potholed road in Montana five years ago.   So I dug out the replacement I 
picked up at some time, washed it off, peeled off the dumb phish  and pet 
food stickers, cleaned the edges up real nice, and started to put the seal on 
it.

Which is like trying to herd cats

as soon as you get one corner, the seals pops off.  Ya this happens a bit on 
the flat glass, but with a curve it really wants to escape.  Probably didn't 
help that I had oiled the glass channel in the rubber.  Idea being it would 
help keep the water from getting in and fogging the laminate apart anymore 
than it already had.  any way, eventually I got one side, wedged it against 
the padded stool top, and worked it on all the way.   The sides and bottom 
stayed on pretty good, but the top popped off.  It you look at a corner 
window glass you will see why.  so a took some thick string and wrapped it 
around a couple times and tied it.  Hah!  so there.  squished the rubber 
around till it seemed to be fairly evenly stretched.

Removed the old seal and cracked glass. (used razor blade cutting paralel to 
glass pulled off outside of seal, opened rear hatch, pulled up a corner of 
the inside of seal, pulled it out the glass came loose- voila!   Looked at 
the ledge... under the dust no rust!!!!!!   Cleaned up the window ledge, 
rubbing off the old glue from the headliner installation.  

Used the long thin string on the seal.  oiled the string gap, and wrapped the 
thin string all the way round the glass twice, working it under the string I 
had wrapped around to hold the seal on.   thinnly tarred the bottom of the 
window ledge.   copiously sprayed wd-40 on the outside of the seal all the 
way around and on the window ledge.

removed the string that held it together, and the seal did not pop off now 
the other string was in the channel.   set the glass/seal in the bus corner, 
and it set in pretty easily, but something about it made me wonder how well 
the curves matched up.   Pushed it up against the metal ledge in there, and 
started pulled the string to lift the seal lip over the metal lip.  Had to 
kick a tree round into place while holding one hand on the glass so i could 
stand on it to push the glass from a better angle.  Got the string pulled all 
the way around and the seal lip over the metal lip (aww- they're kissing) and 
gave the glass a shove to 'set' it.  still looked a little funny- had to give 
it another shove near the top to make the glass set in farther so the outer 
edge at the top lay flatter.

All in all, went a lot better than I expected, except putting the seal on the 
glass. 

Kept the cracked glass- if anyone needs a corner window just to fill in on a 
bus that the windows were swiped out of let me know.

