Date: Tue, 19 Feb 2002 16:08:10 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: John Anderson <jander14(-at-)wvu.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] gas tanks


>If you clean it now, I would clean it, dry it with a hair dryer and then
>dump a couple of quarts of oil in it and slosh the oil around real well.
>
>Make sure it is very dry before you do this and then seal it very well.
>
>Might keep rust from forming on the inside before you get gas back in it.
>
>Slosh again every couple of months.
>
>Just an idea, dave

A great Idea but I'd watch using full thickness oil as getting it out is
a pain.  I usually mix about 1/2 quart kerosene with 1/2 quart of thin
20 weight oil, slosh that about and let most of it run back out, never
had a problem rusting or with running it as is later.  The hair dryer
works like a champ too, but MAKE SURE you have thouroughly
washed the tank out with something that doesn't explode (water
based and non volatile), and as the last step in washing should be a
quick drying with 100% isopropyl alcohol (Iso-HEET) or acetone, the
drier may not be the safest idea around.

I'd speak to people thinking about coating tanks as well, you should
remember this isn't strictly the best possible thought, because even
though every single coating you buy today says it is the A1, best,
peachey keen stuff, you DO NOT KNOW what the federal government
is going to do to gas 1, 5, 10 years from now.  A lot of people got
screwed this way with coatings in classic car tanks.  The only reason
I'd coat is if I had pinholes, short of that, I don't think I would.  And
another thing to this entire thread, no way, no how, you will clean a
tank as well as getting it done at the local radiator shop.  My local
radiator shop wants $40, calculate very closely your time, money in
chemicals, and effort, let alone the friggin hassle of it.  They want
about another $50 to coat afterwards, and I'd be inclined to let them do
that as well, I have in fact in one instance on my uncles '56 Chevy.
Hoover had a bit about this and he was 100% right, it just isn't worth
the friggin effort.  I have in the past, did the one for the '70 SC (cleaned
it that is didn't coat it, see above argument) simply because I already
had the muriatic acid and galvaprep on hand cause I wanted to do two
air compressor tanks.  It is a royal PITA, you got to plug all the holes,
the thing weighs what 125 pounds or so full, it is cumbersome, you got
to make sure you keep it filled up well while it eats it out, it is best to
use the acid mixture warm, etc, etc, etc.  $40 to pay a guy to do it is
sure a lot happier for me.  It will come back spotless, and if you want
it coated, they have coated a hell of a lot more tanks than you ever will
in your lifetime.

John
jander14(-at-)wvu.edu


