From: "Sean Bartnik" <seabar(-at-)rcn.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 19 Feb 2002 17:02:32 -0500
Subject: tires once more/decision time

Hi all,
OK, after many helpful list responses and calling around to my local shop
and the tire companies, it looks like my main choices are thus:

Michelin Agilis61 in 185R14 at about $120/tire.

Continental CR21 reinforced (load range C) in 185R14 at about $80/tire.

Yokohama Y356 in 185R14, price unknown (anybody want to let me know?)

Kumho Commercial A/S 852 in 185R14C load range D, price unknown.

I'm going to be getting 2 tires.  Since the MX that I have on my van is out
of production and I don't want to mix tread patterns, I'm going to replace
my slashed tire with a new one and then put another new one on the other
side, making the leftover MX my spare tire since my spare tire is a
different size and barely holds air (wouldn't drive on it except in an
emergency!)
As it is I'm very strongly leaning toward the Michelin but the price on that
Continental is looking pretty decent.  Is the Michelin really $40 better?

I know Michelin makes great tires but I've never had Continental tires
before on anything.

The Yokohama has also gotten pretty good reviews on the list.  I seem to
recall from back in the day that the Y356 was a highway-rib tire but those
listmembers who have them tell me they are great in snow and rain.  Anyone
have an approximate price?

I got one suggestion for the Kumho though I must admit I am a little leery
of these South Korean tires, even though I have heard some good things.  Kia
and Daewoo have for me put a bad spin on all South Korean products :-)
Anyone have a price for these?

I'm pretty much going to go with either the Michelin or the Continental
unless someone can make a really really strong case for the Yoko or the
Kumho.  I'd love to hear of anyone's experience with the Continental
especially, since no one mentioned them to me aside from Karl.  I had
Yokohama tires on a Mercedes I once had and they seemed pretty good but they
were passenger car tires, and that's another world :-)

Thanks for all your help, folks.  Vandals suck!

Sean Bartnik
Princeton, NJ

