Date: Thu, 21 Feb 2002 07:29:55 -0600
To: "Rob Henley" <campcrazy(-at-)carolina.rr.com>,<type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Bob Perring <perring(-at-)pdq.net>
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Subject: Curtains - Consider this.

Here is what Mary Beth and I came up with, and used for 7 months last year 
during our trip.

I had an old boat cover made of light weight cotton canvas.

Rather than throw it away, I cut it into the appropriate sized pieces and 
used it as curtain material.  Where existing seams could be retained, I did 
so. Where new cuts had to be made, I seamed with cloth adhesive tape.

....... but ........

What we did was use binder clips to hang the canvas from the rain gutters 
on the OUTSIDE of the bus each night. We could completely cover all windows 
and the front wind screen to ultimate privacy.

It took less than a minute to hang them, and about the same amount of time 
to remove and store them in a small bag we kept just for that purpose.

It made our little bus home really cozy and private each night. It was an 
incredible "safe in the womb" sort of feeling that those well hung curtains 
gave us each night. Even in complete darkness on the outside, you could not 
even see our reading lights or small candle lantern to know that anyone was 
inside. We felt very secure with this arrangement for the total ultimate 
privacy.

If people did come up to say hello, and many did, because we were in a bus :-)
it was always a loud "Hello ?" that we heard well before anyone even 
thought to enter our campsite or invade our privacy.

I tell you, it worked great, and depending on the camp site, we had the 
option of leaving some windows open to the outside view when that side 
might be isolated from the eyes of others. Many times we parked our bus 
just so we could leave a nice big picture window opening to the beauty of 
where we were.

Everyone who saw what we did thought it was a neat concept.
The beauty of it was that the ease of installation and removal was so 
simple as to make it a no-brainer for comparing it to the hassle of 
arranging the inside curtains each night.

I have pictures if anyone might like to see them.

Bob Perring
......................................................
12715 Westmere
Houston, Texas 77077
tele:(281) 493-5780
cel: (832) 443-5780
fax: (281) 493-5780
mailto:perring(-at-)pdq.net
Home Page: http://freeweb.pdq.net/perring

