From: "Mueller, David" <dmueller(-at-)stewartlaw.com>
To: MyGroups <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net>, Mike Soultanian
Cc: "Mueller, David" <dmueller(-at-)stewartlaw.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 29 Dec 2006 10:05:44 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Heat in a bus

Interesting thoughts, particularly the twin blowers.  However if one of my
HE flaps were missing, the blower(s) would blow hot HE air into the cooling
shroud, not a healthy situation.  Until I can verify that my lower flaps are
intact, I think pulling air with an in line blower in the main duct well
forward would be safest.  I planned to cut the cardboard main tube, put the
blower in line and insulate the whole main duct.  
One Type 2 list member said there was a HE cover than could be removed on
the right side to see if I have the flaps.  I do not remember seeing a cover
than can be removed with the HE in place but will look. I wonder what I
could see or feel of the lower flaps with the engine cooling fan removed.

 My upper flaps in the aux fan are in place.  The fact one of yours was heat
warped proves your point about the aux fan being able to overcome the engine
fan at idle.  I will have to check that mine are not only there but sealing
properly

Thanks for your advice and experience.

-----Original Message-----
From: MyGroups [mailto:mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net] 
Sent: Friday, December 29, 2006 9:28 AM
To: Mike Soultanian
Cc: Mueller, David; type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Heat in a bus


> The amount of air that the blower moves is pretty pitiful, really.. 
> especially w/ all the bends in the ducts leading to the heat exchanges 
> - plus, the connect at right angles!  I think those flaps are there to 
> keep air from escaping when the engine is off and the blower is still 
> on.  Now, if you don't have the blower on and the blower is missing 
> *its* flaps, that would be bad. 

I think at idle (ONLY) the aux blower will be able to push more air 
through the heat exchangers than the engine fan and for this condition 
only there are the little aluminum flappers in the engine fan shroud. 
Then under all other conditions the flappers in the aux fan keep the 
engine cooling air from pushing backwards through the aux fan under all 
conditions. Mine was missing one of the lower flappers and one of the 
upper flappers. The other upper flapper was warped from heat and not 
closing. Thus no heat and some hot weather cooling air lost.

I'd add a bilge blower per heat exchanger but I have not figured out a 
flapper for the bilge blower... Not that I have given it alot of 
thought. Anyhow one bilge blower per side above the engine so they were 
pushing cool or cold air (the box that my blowers came in said they were 
not designed for anything over 176 degrees F). Have them blow right 
throw the stock hose, etc. Might add a recirculation feature to the 
driver's side so it was recirc some or all interior air while the 
passenger side was pushing only engine compartment air (i.e. fresh air). 
3-4 speeds, rubber mounts for the blowers, etc.

If I wanted to suck heat forward (and risk sucking exhaust into the 
system) I'd use a squirrel cage fan with a metal housing and a metal fan 
with the motor out of the air stream. I have one of these too. Might be 
a quieter blower than a bilge blower too mounted above the engine. 
Another idea would be to use two of the OEM VW bus aux fans - one per 
side  blocking the output necks of one side.

Just misc. ramblings.

Chris in Cookeville, TN
