From: "Mueller, David" <dmueller(-at-)stewartlaw.com>
To: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>, "Mueller, David"
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 29 Dec 2006 10:12:21 -0500
Subject: RE: [T2] Heat in a bus

I know my aux fan flaps are in place, so am not worried about HE air getting
forced back into the engine compartment.  Given your comments about the temp
of the air in the main tube after insulation, I suppose I had best do just
that and see what happens.  As it is now, with no aux fan, the engine fan
does get some warm air to the front, but not real hot and not with real
volume. Perhaps insulating the main tube, the risers to the control box, the
mufflers and as much of the Y I can get to will do the trick.  I don't need
a sauna, just want to be able to use the bus without dressing like an
Eskimo.

-----Original Message-----
From: Mike Soultanian [mailto:msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu] 
Sent: Friday, December 29, 2006 12:33 AM
To: Mueller, David
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Heat in a bus



Mueller, David wrote:
> My 78 bus has little heat.  My booster fan(over the engine) does not work
> but I do have a working assembly with relay to replace it with.  However,
I
> had read that if the lower flaps which prevent the booster from blowing
air
> from the heater boxes into the engine cooling fan are missing, engine
> overheating is guaranteed.   Is there a relatively simple way to determine

I'd be surprised about it blowing air back into the engine cooling fan. 
  The majority of the warm air comes from the engine fan to begin with, 
so I highly doubt that the blower fan will blow air backwards.  The 
amount of air that the blower moves is pretty pitiful, really.. 
especially w/ all the bends in the ducts leading to the heat exchanges - 
plus, the connect at right angles!  I think those flaps are there to 
keep air from escaping when the engine is off and the blower is still 
on.  Now, if you don't have the blower on and the blower is missing 
*its* flaps, that would be bad.


> did not take anything out.  I also plan to insulate the main heat
> duct(surprisingly good looking after nearly 30 years for carboard) abd put
> in a bilge blower.  I think this must go inline toward the front as it
could
> melt at the rear.  

I think it could also melt in the front after reinsulating the main 
pipe.  My vertical pipe up front gets hotter than I can stand to touch 
so I imagine it's even hotter under the bus.  I am working on a modified 
system as described in another email.  I just finished fabricating the 
vent today and I should have it installed sometime this weekend.  It 
utilizes an auxiliary blower (in addition to the one in the engine 
compartment), but is not in-line with the hot air tube.  I will post 
results when I finish.

Mike
