From: "Jason Z Upper" <jzupper(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 14 Oct 2004 12:49:00 -0400
Subject: Vacuum Gauge, Hesitation, Head Torque (long)

Hi Folks,

My newly-rebuilt engine runs well, but is still teething as I get it all 
dialed in.  It starts on the first try (when all the vacuum hoses are hooked 
up, d'oh!), it makes good power, and the usual parameters (oil temp, press, 
CHT) seem to be within spec.

That said, I've been having some trouble getting the idle and the timing 
dialed in just right.  I had a dash-mounted VDO vacuum gauge hooked up to 
the throttle plate vacuum port, and the idle just wasn't right.  So I hooked 
it up to manifold vacuum (teed in with the fuel pressure and decel valve), 
and it wouldn't start.  The no-start symptoms were the same as with a big 
vacuum leak, so I unhooked the gauge, reconnected the oil breather and aux. 
air valve (bumped loose when I pulled the gauge tee off), and fired it right 
up.  I may have had a loose hose all the time, but I was curious if a 
dash-mounted vacuum gauge would cause this type of problem?  It seems like 
15' of hose might be enough to cause a vacuum "hole", but I have no prior 
experience to base that on....

Also, I have noticed a slight hesitation -- so slight I can barely feel it 
-- when running and accelerating at partial throttle.  If I open the 
throttle to accelerate it goes away as the engine passes 3000 RPM, and if I 
close the throttle to decelerate it goes away immediately.  It only seems to 
do it under load, and only seems to do it while the engine is warming up.  
I'm running a new fuel filter, new (<3 years) fuel lines, new gas (tank 
drained), and clean injectors.  Timing is 10* BTDC at idle (some like it 
hot) and throttle plate vacuum maxes out at 18".  Any thoughts?

Lastly, I have noticed a bit of oil leaking from the joint where the heads 
meet the cylinders.  This may be residual oil from the initial pressure 
build and first fire, but I'm concerned that it may be from not enough 
torque on the heads.  When I put them on I tightened them down to 21-23ft-lb 
per Muir, Bentley, Hoover, and the T2 library.  The oil that's there is not 
dripping on the ground and consumption does not seem to be excessive.  Do I 
need to let the heads "run in" before retorquing them, or should I hit them 
now?

Thanks in advance for any help or suggestions.  The vacuum seems like an 
easy one, the hesitation worries me, and I don't even want to think about 
the heads...

Best,
Jason Z Upper
Universal Circle Music
1979 Westy "Sweet Pea" -- 1977 engine out, heads replaced, running once 
again!
Asheville, North Carolina
