Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)shagadelic.org>
Date: Thu, 14 Oct 2004 16:11:30 -0700
To: Joseph Broach <joseph.broach(-at-)umontana.edu>
Subject: Re: [T2] emissions confusion with '78 bus

On Oct 14, 2004, at 3:43 PM, Joseph Broach wrote:

> What's a 1978 bus supposed to have?  Cat?  EGR?  Both?  I assume an 
> emissions tester would go by the VIN model year, 1978, and not any 
> engine code, etc.  What would be needed to bring the bus back to spec 
> before a future inspection?  Most likely places are Portland, OR or 
> the Bay Area, CA.  Thanks for the great resource, and a special thanks 
> to R. Atwell for ratwell.com.  We're learning, but we have a long way 
> to go.  Yesterday, I was under the bus and suddenly realized: there 
> aren't any springs!  Well, one of many firsts...

'78 Federal did not have a cat, so if your Bus was originally a Federal 
model, you should be OK even if you come to lovely California.

Open your driver door, and look on the sticker on the pillar... it 
should say either "Catalyst" or "Non-catalyst".  If the latter, you had 
a Federal model and thus do not need to worry about a cat ever; this 
has the added bonus of being able to use the one-piece extractor-style 
exhaust if you ever need to replace your muffler (hey Richard -- do you 
have a photo of yours on your web site?).  If the former, you have a 
California model that will need to have the cat if ever brought into 
California.

The California model also needs to have an unleaded fuel filler 
restrictor on the filler neck ("birds beak").  Federal models are not 
required to have this restrictor in California.

Even on the Federal model, I'm pretty sure you need to have the EGR all 
hooked up to pass inspection in California...

And, finally, if you do end up coming to the San Francisco Bay Area, I 
would not hesitate to recommend Buslab in Berkeley ... I had them do 
the necessary work on my '76 California model to pass my first smog; 
EGR and cat both needed replacing ... sigh, pricey parts, but the 
Buslab guys also made sure it was in tune properly to pass, and took it 
to a VW-friendly smog station ... saved me a lot of effort.  I will 
most certainly be taking my Bus there this upcoming year for my next 
smog test.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
