Date: Fri, 15 Oct 2004 11:20:24 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Koni update

Thanks for all the responses so far. I'll keep everyone informed as progress occurs.

Now that I've had a chance to ride with these shocks for a while I thought I'd comment: I'm truly impressed.

I first removed the rear sway bar so I wouldn't skew the results and I drove around for a few days like that to get used to driving the bus in a semi-stock state again. I like the rear sway bar for highway journeys but around town it simply locks up the rear suspension too much. It's non-adjustable and speed bumps rock the bus as do driveway entrances. There is also a little too much oversteer which isn't good for offramps: the rear tires just aren't making good grip with the road.

Having removed the KrappYabsorberB gas-a-justs from the rear I've noticed several improvements while driving with the Konis.

First, the ride is far smoother even though I still have GR-2's on the front. Because the rears were so stiff a lot of road feel transfered up to the driver even though you feel you are sittting right over the front suspension alone. Handling is also far improved over the KYBs and driving the bus has a more confident feel. Fast lane changes are un-bus like. I expected as much and they live up to the hype.

I'd always thought the 73-79 disc brakes were pretty good but could never quite get my head around the numbers. If you've seen the Brooklands book on VW Bus "performance", the 1973 new model road test by PV4 stopped the bus from 60mph in 123 ft. This is a pretty amazing braking distance when you look at the specs for new cars with anti-lock brakes (keep in mind they also tend to weigh more):

http://www.busdepot.com/busdepot/details.jsp?partnumber=88921

What surprised me most about the Konis is the braking improvement. What I previously felt as a massive nose dive was also the rear end lifting up. I guess it makes sense that the gas shocks always wanting to expand to maximum extension are not as good for braking. At least the KYBs aren't up to the task.

Standing on the brakes in the 72 bus with the original F&F shocks produces the usual mushy ride and nose dive I've associated with oil filled shocks but not with the Konis. I'm excited about getting the front set produced more than ever: oil filled shock ride with gas filled shock performance.

The rear sway-bar isn't needed anymore and will sit in the garage. I can't speak for the even more expensive adjustable version but I feel the money is better spent on the shock absorbers.

--
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
