Date: Wed, 18 Jun 2003 14:33:11 -0700
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: Do it your self alignment

> Date: Wed, 18 Jun 2003 11:13:33 -0500 (CDT)
> To: VW Type II Mailing List <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
> From: Steve Pribyl <steve(-at-)unliketea.com>
> Subject: Do it your self alignment
>
> Now that I have the rebuild of the front end completed I need to make my
> bus go straight.
>
> Documents I will be/or have consulted before starting.
>         The docs on type2.com
>         Bentley
>
> For those that have done this do you have any hints or suggestions that
> are note covered in the mentioned documents.

All that's great to get a complete understanding but most times I just want to do a quick toe in adjustment after replacing a tie rod end. Here's what I do:
1. Roll the car back and forth to settle it into a straight line.
2. Get a long piece of wood or a bar that is at least as long as the wheel base. Set a brick next to one rear tire and lay your 'straight edge' on it. Now go up to the front tire and check how far off from straight you are. The straight edge should be contacting both the back tire at
both the front and the rear. Ideal for the front tire is that it makes contact at the rear and has very little gap at the front. Go to the other side and do the same thing.
3. If the front tires are both pointing to the left or right move the stearing wheel until they are straight. Even if they both line up consult your steering wheel to make sure its in a position you can live with. I've found that my last 2 Busses don't have the cross bar quite lined up
from side to side and that the left bar is slightly forward of the right one.
4. Now its time to adjust the tie rods for both wheels to get your desired result. I usually jack up the car just a little to get some of the weight, but not all, off of the tires. This makes it easier to turn the tie rods when you're making your adjustments. If you have 1 side or the
other to adjust (based on your long straightedge observations) do that first.
5. The final adjustment requires 2 smaller implements. I like to use 2 yardsticks. Crawl under the car and, putting them end to end but with overlap, measure the distance from the back of 1 tire to the back of the other tire. Take this measurement about half way up on the tire. The
exact position isn't critical as you may have interference from suspension parts. Now take the same measurement at the front of the tires. The difference between the front and back measurements should be about 3/8" with the front being the smaller of the two.

I've found that when I take the car down to the shop after using this procedure they don't usually need to change the toe in. If you have changed ball joints I do recommend taking it in so they can verify the whole geometry but this will get you close and in the case of tie rod end
replacement it may be all you need.

--
Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org
www.ghiatwins.homestead.com
Oo\ /oO
