Date: Wed, 18 Jun 2003 18:52:09 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Steve Pribyl <steve(-at-)unliketea.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Do it your self alignment

On Wed, 18 Jun 2003, Steve Pribyl wrote:

> Now that I have the rebuild of the front end completed I need to make my
> bus go straight.
>
> Documents I will be/or have consulted before starting.
> 	The docs on type2.com
> 	Bentley

I keep meaning to write this up.  It might be in the archives...

You have two things to adjust, camber (the tires leaning in and out at the
top) and toe-in (the tires angling in toward each other at the top)

The specs are in the bentley book.

If you don't have a flat, level surface or you don't understand what I say
here I strongly suggest that you pay the man to do it.  Doing your own
alignment is an interesting challenge, but it does take care to do
properly.

You adjust camber first, then toe-in.  You can't do it in opposite order.

To check camber, remove the hubcaps,  put your bus on the flat, level
surface with the steering wheel centered in the straight ahead position.
Push the bus forward by hand at least one revolution of its wheels and
allow it to come to a stop without brakes or other disturbances.

Use a short level in the vertical position next to the hubcap-mounting
ring.  The top of the ring should be leaning slightly outward (tops of
wheels are cambered outward from the bus).  Hold the level against the
ring at the top, level it with the bubble, and measure the gap between the
level and the ring at the bottom.  Also measure the distance between the
contact points on the ring.  Do this for both sides of the bus.

Move the bus forward 1/2 revolution and repeat the measurement on both
sides.  Make sure that the measurements are reasonably close.  If they
aren't, you might have a bent rim.

Now you get to do some trig, so get a high school upperclassman to help if
you don't know how.

You have defined a long thin right triangle, with its hypotenuse as the
distance between the contact points, and its opposite side as the gap you
measured.  You want the angle.  So we have:

Sin(angle)=opposite/hypotenuse.

Put your numbers in and solve for the angle, which will probably come out
to be less than one degree.  Multiply this number by 60 to put it in
minutes.  Compare this to the values in the Bentley.  If it's in the
specified range, you're OK, if not you need to adjust.  Do the calcs for
both sides.  You may get lucky and not have to adjust, or you might have
to adjust only one side.  Adjusting one side does not affect the other.

To adjust the camber, you have to turn the eccentric bushing on the
upper ball joint. Loosen the ball joint nut and use a big wrench to turn
the hex bushing above the control arm.  Channellock pliars will do in a
pinch.  The notch in one of the hex faces of the bushing should be
pointing more or less straight ahead.  Turning the notch to one side or
the other changes the camber.  If you turn the notch past the point where
it is pointing left or right the camber will start going the other way, so
make sure the notch stays more or less to the front.  You will be able to
see if the adjustment moved the ball joint in or out, so move it a bit in
the desired direction and tighten the ball joint nut.

After adjusting, measure again!  Adjust, measure, adjust, measure...

Now for toe-in.

Use two yardsticks and measure the distance between the rear inside edges
of the wheel rims under the bus.  Measure the distance between the front
inside edges of the wheel rims under the bus.  Subtract the second number
from the first and compare to the Bentley numbers.  You can change the
toe-in with the adjustable tie rod.  Loosen the lock nuts and turn the tie
rod on its ends, one way increases toe and the other way decreases toe.
Check, adjust, check, adjust.

If you have made major changes in the front end, you may find that your
steering wheel no longer centers.  The adjustment for this in on the front
end of the drag link.  Pop the ball end loose from the steering box, turn
the ball end one turn on teh drag link, and re-insert.  Check, adjust,
check, adjust.

If I haven't discouraged you yet, you should have a fun weekend aligning
your bus.  If I have, at least you'll know that the alignment guy earns
his money!  :)

George
