Date: Mon, 09 Dec 2002 22:08:26 -0600
From: The Johnson's <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
To: Vintagebus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Road trip epic

Well everyone, here is the much anticipated details of my recent epic
adventure in Clementine (1967 21-window) to New Mexico.  It all started
with the idea of taking the bus to the NSTA (National Science Teachers
Association) Area Convention in Alberquerqe, NM.  I spent a considerable
amount of time on Clementine before my departure and thought she was
ready for the trip.  (She had just received a transmission fluid change,
two new heat exchangers, muffler, valve and brake adjustment, and an oil
change.)  She made it to Taos from Stillwater with only one hitch, a
broken throttle return spring, in Clayton, NM.  By the time she arrived
in Taos she was running rich probably from the altitude, so I adjusted
her a little leaner.  Then After 5 days in an Earthship (Nautilus) we
left Taos for Espanola to stay overnight in a B&B.  It was there that I
had a run-in with New Mexico State Patrol and an intrusive doctor, but
that story has to do with my 15 month old son and not the bus so I will
save you the details for now, suffice it to say I want to sell
everything and dissappear off the map because an intrusive government is
completely untolerable to me.  After the CT scan we got on the road to
Alberquerqe.  We checked into the hotel and except for the diarrea and
vomiting of my children and wife all was well.  It was then that I
called J.P. Henriksen (my first call of many) of the Bus Co-op to find
out where the co-op was located.  He told me that in just a few hours
was the monthly VW owners meeting and that I should attend, I checked
with my wife if this would be okay and she yelled back through the
bathroom door that it would be fine.  (slight dramatization there)
Anyway I took off for the meeting and about a hundred yards later my bus
shuddered to a halt.  My transmission had become stuck in two gears at
once (or so David would tell me later).  I called J.P. and informed him
of my situation and he then started passing in the phone around the
meeting and garnered me much advice.  I had the bus towed to Foreign
Aide on David's suggestion and waited until morning.  I called Paul in
service and he informed me that my transmission was indeed stuck and was
not coming unstuck for anything.  He informed me that I needed a
transmission rebuild which at his establishment would cost me 1500.00
(ouch) and take at least two weeks (didn't have the time).  Meanwhile
J.P. had also been in contact with me and with Paul and found out my
situation almost before I did.  While I was looking for auto
transporters, J.P. was finding me a good transmission.  Berry, J.P.'s
friend, had a rebuilt transmission laying in the yard of the bus co-op
and would sell it to me for a resonable price.  Foreign Aide agreed to
R&R  the transmissions (for the price of 634.94 (ouch again)).  Two days
later I was ready to leave and the convention was over, I also got some
extra parts from J.P. and the bus co-op.  It was a trying adventure, but
I would do it all again, I just wish that I could have done all the work
on my Clementine, having someone else touch her seems dirty.  Foreign
Aide did good work, although I now need to rebuild the shifter to make
it a little tighter to match the transmission.

    Anyway, thank you to all those who kept Clementine on the road,
    Tim Johnson
    Clementine ('67 21-window)

    My work is never done, I just walked out into the garage to smell
the bus because my wife was complaining of a burning rubber smell
(emergency brake on for 3-4 miles).  I think she will have to help me
next time I do a major brake rebuild.
