Date: Fri, 25 May 2012 15:57:49 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mike Soultanian <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>, type 2
Subject: Re: [T2] Insulation under the fuel tank on a 79 bus

Mike, I've only seen it on very late Westy's, it is not on my '77 which is
total stock, but was on both my '78 and '79'.  I never pulled it down and
haven't had a bus with it in 10 years, but I thought it was foam with a rubber
membrane on it, perhaps though it was fiberglass with heavy foil?  I just
don't recall anymore.  The '78 and '79 both also featured those
thingamajiggers that were exhaust pipes for the heater flapper boxes, the
exhaust hoods of the flapper boxes had a cover with a 2" or so tube exiting,
then flex down to the metal pipes mounted on the frame that dumped heat out
beside the heater boxes.
 
I presumed the insulation was more sound deadening
than anything, I believe the inside of the firewall panel was also insulated,
but pehaps given the heat dump tubes it was to keep heat from the tank, maybe
vapor lock avoidance, maybe EPA/fuel expansion issues?  Also corresponded to
the same years the fuel pump was relocated.  I've had a '79 passenger, but do
not recall whether it had the insulation or not.  It did not have the heater
dump tubes, but they could have been long lost on that bus.
 
Any way round
they made bays for years without it, but I don't know it is a bad idea.  I'd
probably use the same stuff I like for interior if it is still available which
is the JC Whitless mylar faced closed cell foam stuff, but I haven't looked
for it in about 10 years.  I think Dynamat makes or made a heavy product as
well, but was much pricier.  I will say that on the '78 it did hold moisture I
recall and had some rust under it, but not more so than the bottom of any West
Virginia bus of the vintage so I don't know it was worse for the insulation.
John
 
----- Original Message -----
From: Mike Soultanian
mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu
 
Does anyone know much about the insulation below
the fuel tank on a late bay (mounted on the underside of the body, facing the
transmission)? Can it still be sourced?  What was its purpose?  I'm working on
a project and that insulation was previously removed and we're trying to
figure out if it's needed.  The owner is concerned that it's going to trap
water against the body and promote rust, so I wanted to see if anyone had any
input on its pros/cons.
