Date: Sat, 26 May 2012 13:50:27 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: "traveling"

How expensive are the mattress and box springs? I think I'd replace them 
- sell them at your departure point and replace them at the destination. 
Plus you can buy an air mattress to get you through a couple of months 
if you need to save up cash for the purchase. I think for the price of 
the rental or the Bus replacement, you could buy the bed mattress new.

The swaybars are something used on heavy trailers and trucks. They keep 
the RV and truck from wandering on the highway. Not going to be useful 
here. If your trailer has a tendency to wander back and forth then just 
load the heaviest stuff just forward of the axle and not all the way at 
the front. Get a hitch receiver and ball that raises the trailer tongue 
up so it is neither sloping downward to a hitch (buss is lower than the 
trailer) or uphill either (bus hitch is higher than the trailer).

I tow that Brenderup 1205S that was in the Flickr pictures. Mine is the 
one with the CR-V. I've hauled camping gear for my son's troop and can 
haul gear for 14 boys (not backpackers, many of these kids pack for two 
days like they are off for summer camp). The trailer unloaded is about 
425 lbs.

Cost: I paid about $1200 for mine new. Watch Craigslist. I seem them 
there occasionally. The 1105S is slightly smaller and they come in all 
sorts of sizes larger. They'll stand up on the rear tailgate for storage 
if you have room in a garage. On Craigslist they'll be listed as Thule 
trailers b/c though Brenderup made the trailers in Denmark, Thule was 
the company that attempted to market them here. Apparently we Americans 
still prefer large heavy-duty trailers and heavy duty tow vehicles b/c 
they didn't sell enough to keep Thule interested in the venture. Thule 
is now selling more traditional American trailers - bigger, heavier and 
that requrie a V-6 or better.

Just do a 'net search for Brenderup 1205S and you'll find discussion of 
these trailers. It isn't the only brand available. In Europe there are a 
dozen other brands. A well equipped DIY'er can build something like this 
too. I had a generic American utility trailer and it was fine but no way 
to weatherproof it without building a plywood box for it which was my 
intention had I not found this Brenderup. I had to remove a leaf from 
the springs on the American utility trailer to keep it from crashing 
through the bumps on rough roads. It's axle weight capacity was overkill 
and the banging and bouncing was killing my lawn tractor (part of how I 
paid for college was mowing yards).

We moved residences with a small trailer and the VW Bus. Not easy to 
move large furniture in a small trailer but for moving boxes, the VW and 
a trailer is a surprisingly capable haul vehicle. We've moved about five 
times since we've been married - my wife in with me, then across town 
from one rental place to another then to our first house, and then to 
our current house, etc. I'll likely rent a truck this next time if we 
ever move again but if the distances are short, a bus and small trailer 
is great. Just takes alot of trips. Cheap is good.

Chris in TN
