From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'John Anderson'" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>, "'type 2'"
Date: Sat, 2 Jun 2012 12:10:40 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Valve cover clips

Dang.dang .dang.. I had soaked them both with penetrating oil over night, I
got one off - the 15MM wrench was very helpful.

 

Unfortunately the other one broke. So now I have one little piece of the
bale wire stuck inside the little hole of the cylinder head. To make matters
worse, it is the one on the front driver side. So the heater box is right in
the way. I'm not sure how to get this little nub out, except to try to drill
it out. To get to it, I think I've got to pull the engine. As this is spring
steel (it is spring steel right?) I'm not sure if I can even drill it out,
do I need a special bit to get it out?

 

I think the amount of metal sticking out is so small as to make it near
impossible to get a pair of vise grips or anything on it.

 

What causes this? I've never had one seize inside the head like that.

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper

 

From: John Anderson [mailto:wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com] 
Sent: Friday, June 01, 2012 12:07 PM
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net; type 2
Subject: Re: [T2] Valve cover clips

 

I take an appropriate size drill bit and clean em out, then a dab of moly
grease.  Will slide easily for 15 years.  Like Bob mentions though, if the
bales are still good, they have plenty of tension holding them in the holes,
big F'in lever to pry em out.

 

But you want them damn tight, means the bales are still nice and strong,
just like you want them.  Use a longer tool of your choosing to get them off
for more leverage.  I actually tend to use the end of about a 15mm open end
wrench and I "walk" them off, a bit hard to describe unfortunately, more of
a got to see it.  And I don't recall if you can on a T1, cause mostly I work
on T4's and waterboxers (same bale, but no heat exchanger obviously.)

 

John

 

 

 

From: Kevin Guarnotta kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net
 

Trying to do a tune up, and the valve cover clips are a real bear to turn.
Even after getting one of the covers off, the clip is REALLY hard to turn. I
am thinking I need to remove the clip, and somehow clean up the little hole
that it spins in? Or do I just need to get new clips?
