Date: Sat, 02 Jun 2012 19:17:19 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: "Doyt W. Echelberger" <doyt(-at-)buckeye-express.com>
Subject: Re: Valve Cover Clips

Chemistry apparently caused the problem, so chemistry might untangle it. 
You could try a tiny drop of hydrochloric acid HCl (Muratic Acid), 
available at a building materials outlet or where they do concrete 
work.  deliver a tiny drop of the acid on the end of a toothpick directly 
to the tiny steel nub that is lodged in the hole made of aluminum.  HCl 
will react vigorously with the aluminum and enlarge the hole, while the 
steel nubbin will be much less reactive. The hole will get larger and the 
jammed-in nature of the nubbin will change.
A complication of this plan is that aluminum forms a thin protective layer 
of aluminum oxide when exposed to air, and you will need to break through 
this microscopic layer to get the acid into contact with the aluminum, so 
the reaction can begin.  Tapping the nubbin deeper into the hole with a 
punch could break the aluminum oxide layer enough to allow the acid to do 
its work.

Wear protective goggles when handling the acid, and read about safety in 
handling the acid if you are unfamiliar with such procedures. Keep it out 
of your eyes and off of your skin, and neutralize it with generous washings 
of water when you want it to stop working.

If you are unfamiliar handling hydrochloric acid, I suggest that you do a 
pilot experiment first, using the acid in a small glass bowl on a small 
piece of aluminum wire or an aluminum object, to gain some experience in 
handling the chemical and so that you can see what a reaction looks like, 
and learn how to control it.

The gas bubbles are hydrogen, and they could catch fire or explode if 
trapped, mixed with air, and exposed to a spark.  The aluminum turns into 
aluminum chloride ions, which dissolve in the water that is part of the 
acid solution.  If you see the bubbles, you know the hole is getting larger 
and the nubbin is getting looser. Once you wash it all away with plenty of 
water, you might try compressed air to blow the nubbin out of the hole. Or 
figure out something better.  These are just starter ideas.

Doyt Echelberger
