Date: Mon, 4 Jun 2012 10:59:58 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Bob Pratt <ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint

Bob, I've written a primer (pun sort of sad) on type2 years ago, it mostly
still applies.
 
First get the book, the starter book.  HPBooks #1082.  Mine
is 25 years old, but the authors are the same, they knew their shit then, I
presume the new one is even better.  It will actually answer all your
questions, but I like to type so...
 
Acryllic lacquer, still available some
states and from TCP Global online, "for hobbiest only"  Easiest to apply due
to fast drying which can also be a pain (orange peel etc) but for a driveway
job, easiest least toxic to work with.  You may be able to get it in your
state but as least durable, I wouldn't anyway, though it is fine for an
occasional driven sort of car, I mean shit every body shop in the 80's was
using it for true collision repair, just with time reds particularly will
oxidize and fade.  Certainly easiest to clean up and spot repair.  Used to be
cheapest but the EPA has made it pricier than other choices.
 
Synthetic
enamel, probably long gone, used to be the cheap option, but took forever to
dry, worthless without a booth.
 
Acryllic enamel, need to use an isocyanate
hardener (for driveway drying and durability.)  Hence toxic, but no more so
than the urethanes, with a GOOD mask.  Now in the day 25 years ago, most
people would have said, for use in a booth, but as it became the cheapest
option, it became the driveway option.  Great durable paint.  I've done scores
of great driveway jobs with PPG Delstar and their cheaper Omni AE (though Omni
can have WILDLY varying coverages depending on color) but I learned to paint
semi-pro before I was doing those.  Still many a good first job is done with
it, and worst case you just shave and color sand runs and bugs.  Most people
initially put it on too heavy (runs) then they compensate and end up with a
lot of orange peel, then they figure it out.  It would still be my probably
first choice to learn, though the next one is a close second.
 
Acryllic
urethane, can actually be a great choice, again I've had fair luck with Omni
AU (coverage), sprays easier than acryllic enamel, almost as good as lacquer,
good durability, but getting slightly pricier (though 2nd tier systems like
Omni or the TCP Global stuff likely cheaper than first tier acryllic enamels
like Delstar.)
 
Other urethanes, basecoat clearcoat systems, most durable?,
harder to spray?, price climbs.
 
Which brings up basecoat clearcoat.  Unless
you are doing metallic, I wouldn't.  Lots of people would.  Why, I personally
have no idea, makes true spot repair impossible (got to do a whole panel
blend) and is overpainted for any classic VW IMHO.  This is beginning to swing
back around for this reason, for the last 10-15 years people have considered
even for solid colors basecoat/clearcoat to be top restoration grade.  This
was in some respects because the best paints of most manufacturers had gone
that way, and they were ignoring (or abandoning) their single stage paint
development.  But oddly in last few years even on high dollar stuff there is a
groundswell in returning to painting it like the factory did, single stage,
even if it means only spending $2-3000 on your material instead of $3-4000 8-)
 
Brand.  I'm a long PPG guy, as I've said countless times, Ford/Chevy thing. 
When I started Dupont had the best etching primer, PPG the best epoxy primer
(that lasted better than the Dupont etching), PPG the best enamels, then
urethanes and lacquer were a wash.  I sprayed mostly epoxy primer and enamel
hence I fell in with PPG, but it is honestly a wash.  I've sprayed all the big
lines, Sikkens, Glasurit, R-M, several others and never found a reason to
change from PPG.  The best bit of advice I give are the standard ones, if you
aren't going with TCP (and I think and hear that using their enamel or
urethane are both GREAT lower cost options, but since their shipping to AK is
prohibitive I haven't tried em) go to your local dealers of PPG and Dupont and
go with whoever seems more friendly and helpful to you as a hobbiest, +/- who
will offer you a price break (ASK, they aren't going to give it to you if you
don't.)
 
As an money point, running L86 Agate Brown on TCP Global (is that
what is on a '78 Champagne?) you could be under $175 for everything to spray a
gallon of their hardened acryllic enamel, under $225 for the acryllic urethane
for topoats.  I'd note that their prices on the PPG products are WORSE than
even local AK prices as they are trying to sell their paint, so I certainly
wouldn't take those seriously.

If you are considering cross shopping the
Duplicolor crap (not that it probably isn't reasonable lasting paint, just
that why do it when for the same money you can have a custom match) I'd
probably first go with TCP Global, likely I'd spring for their urethane, then
second choice would be a PPG guy who does Omni locally if you want someone to
talk too in person.  The prices TCP has are so damn appealing that you can
likely spray their AU for the price of second line enamel locally, let alone
their enamel prices which are just crazy good, so they are well worth the
thought.  Being a hard PPG guy though (and this advice goes against every
painting fiber in my body at one time against mixing lines) I'd personally
still likely spray PPG DP-40/48/60/74 (whichever color) as a primer/sealer on
the bare metal, and after finish bodywork before whatever topcoat I used.  I
am personally that confident in that primer for use over or under anything,
but I'd
 presume whatever epoxy primer TCP sells is fine, and stays "in line."  The
DP-90 (black) BTW makes a great black for undercarraige, rims, etc, even
though they say it isn't rated as topcoat, I've got rims 10, 15, 20 years old
still like new painted with it.

Don't shit with lacquer high build primers
anymore BTW, use sprayable polyester filler, I like Z-chrome "rust defender"
(cheapest but not cheap anymore) but I don't spray it on bare metal like it
says you can, I put down the DP-40 first, and after.  You do need a big tip to
spray it in a cheap Harbor Freight gun.  Lets you do crazy cheater shit like
leave bodywork at 150-180 grit sanding, shoot it, sand 320-400 for topcoat and
never worry it will shrink.  Also does a great job on a worn westy roof
(direct to the roof after pressure washing, scrubbing, sand scuffing) as a
poor mans gelcoat, followed by your choice of topcoats.

Get a good cheaper
(but not generic) gun for topcoat, I've had great luck with my Sharpe HVLP,
and I've sprayed, Accuspray, IWATA, etc.  Mine is the SGF which predated the
Cobalt, which itself I think is now gone for the FINEX.   For $110-120
off *bay, you will thank yourself that you only have yourself to blame not the
gun while learning.  I have some great HVLP Harbor Freight guns, but also some
that don't spray for shit.   Other thing is to spring the $60 a Motor Guard
(yeah the exact some ones they sold for cars in the 70's as bypass oil
filters) air filter for your compressor.  Best cheapest dessicant filter you
can get.  After a day of use you just pop out the toilet paper element and let
it bake in the sun the next day (get a couple to revolve) or let it sit in a
150F oven for a bit.  Keep a dedicated oil free rubber hose to run the guns
off the Motor Guard.

John


----- Original Message -----
From: Bob Pratt
<ka1dza(-at-)verizon.net>
 
So what does a beginning car painter use? Epoxy,
Urethane, or Acrylic?
