Date: Fri, 18 Jul 2003 21:17:30 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Friday: Custom Van Book

My lovely wife went to a huge used book sale today and came home with a book
called, "The Do-It-Yourself Custom Van Book".  Published in 1977!  By
Franklynn Peterson & Judi R. Kesselman.  It actually has some useful info
despite the poor grammar - here are some of the chapter headings:

Sleeping in your van
Eating in your van
How to get a head in your van (toilet!)
Windows and vents
Decorating the outside of your van

They do mention the VW bus and have a couple of pictures of Westys.  Here are
some excerpts:

"MINIVANS come from Volkswagen and other importers.  Some of the more rugged
van lovers like to rule out VW's from the world of vans.  But we've watched
enough families pack an unbelieveable number of children into these minivans,
that we'll give them a chance.  We've seen some nice customizing jobs done on
them too.  In addition, the Volkswagen dealers themselves sell vans equipped
with a nifty selection of extras ideally suited for soft family-style camping.
You can order a specially-outfitted VW van, drive out of the dealer's showroom
after it arrives, and take the little thing camping the same day.  That's
something you can't duplicate with most Detroit-built vans."

And they have another section describing the Westy conversion:

"The equipment includes numerous storage cabinets tucked into odd places,
dining table, sink with electric water pump, icebox, clothes closet with
mirror, seat which converts to a double bed, and even a child's hammock good
for lounging or sleeping in style.  The Campmobile comes with an electric
receptacle so you can plug it into a 110 volt outlet at home or at campsite,
saving your van's battery some wear and tear.  A couple of Volkswagen's air
conditioners will only run off 110 volts; you can't use them unless you're
stationary at an electric outlet (the same is true of many made-in-USA van air
conditioners).  You can buy options aplenty for the VW campmobile.  There's an
electric refrigerator that operates off of the 12-volt car battery or off of
110 volts, a two burner stove with refillable gas tank, extra sleeping units,
luggage rack, screened windows, and plumbing fitting so the van can be hooked
up to external water supplies at campsites or at home.  You can even order an
auxiliary battery that will run all of the electric gadgets available for the
VW ready-to-use van."

It even has a section describing the installation of a shower into a van!
That has been a topic of discussion on this list in the past, I think.  There
is more but I'm tired of typing so you will have to find a copy of the book
for yourself.  :)

-David
