From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 18 Jul 2003 23:20:08 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Driving a Bus]

Tried Muir's advice for later model buses...

At 15 mph shift into 2nd...
... at 30 mph shift into 3rd...
... at 45 mph shift into 4th...
... top out at 65 mph (yes, I know that your's goes faster!)

Then...
... at 45 mph downshift into 3rd...
... at 30 downshift into 2nd...
... at 15 downshift into 1st...

... and lo and behold, it makes driving our bus a whole new experience.
Prior to this I was shifting into upper gears too soon.  The higher sound of
the engine working at it's intended rpm is a bit disconcerting, but the bus
drives a lot better.  Inclines are a bit easier to take on, too.

Took G down to Darrell's to see if he could ID the strange muffler and
recommend a replacement that wouldn't involve replacing the manifold.  Turns
out that the muffler is a "glass pack", which explains the volume when we
first started driving him, and, since the glass pack's "glass" has packed it
up and left the muffler, why it's just gotten louder as time has passed.

Darrell's got a muffler that looks identical to the glass pack and is a
direct replacement, but it's really a regular muffler with a sound level
that will make my neighbors and landlord a lot happier.  I'm picking up the
new one and installing it next week.

Then we're putting G into the shop to take care of that oil leak (unless I
figure it out first and it's something that I can fix meself).  Our county
failed the pollution test thingy this week and they're talking emissions
test for vehicles...

... and those earth-bound rainbows when it rains and the water flows out
from under G are a bit embarrassing.  Pretty, but pollution nonetheless.

As far as emissions testing is concerned, this is Georgia.  Nearly every
other used car on the road is maintained with the "minimum cost/effort"
model.  We probably use more coat hangers and duct tape per capita than any
other state! {grin}

So we're going to start getting things in line with G, now, before there's
some sort of deadline to meet.

And my contribution to Friday Content...

I was out by our hummingbird feeder and was startled by one of the micro
flyers buzzing my head and using the feeder while I watched.  It was about
12" or so from my face while it hovered, the thrumming from its wings enough
for me to actually feel inside my head while it chirped every second or so.
It landed on the feeder to drink and it was an amazingly small avian.  I
doubt that it was much more than 1.75" high.

Very, very cool.  I've been waiting for years for the feeder to attract one
of the little guys during their migration, and I was standing right there to
watch and marvel. :O)

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
