Date: Fri, 2 Jul 2004 08:50:55 -0700
From: Bully Girl <bullygirl(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Rear Brake overhaul and intro

Hi everyone,

I am new to the list and wanted to introduce myself. Hi.

The archives have wonderful help associated with my rear brake
overhaul now in progress:

b" My new (to me) 1971 Type 2 Single Cab sat outdoors in rainy (in
winter) Marin County for about 10 years. As you can imagine, stuff is
rusty, but the body is straight and in reasonable condition
considering where it sat for so long. I had to spray a can of
spider-killer underneath before I could even crawl under the car. They
spun a thousand yards of web the first night I parked it in my garage.
There are still some babies scurring around but I can deal with them
as I go.
b" I'll start with the brakes and move on to the engine and other stuff
later as I learn more about the guts of our beloved autos.
b" The "composite" brake drums/hubs were so fused, they were no longer
composite parts. I HAD to get a 3/4" breaker bar, 1-13/16" socket and
5' cheater pipe, remove the castellated nut (boy was that fun!) and
buy extra liquid wrench, and super duper space age penetrant to remove
all of the old brake parts.
b" Once off the truck, I literally attacked the "composite" drums/hubs
with a rubber mallet, liberal amounts of penetrant, and some
determination to get them separated. I took the drums to the Midas man
around the corner. He measured them and said they were junk. No big
surprise there.
b" Needless to say, the adjusting stars wouldn't budge. The method to
address this situation described here:
http://www.type2.com/archive/type2/100146.html is a thing of beauty
and cool. It works. I lubed-up the star adjuster and hole with
anti-seize goo and can now actually visualize this working the way
Muir describes on the early pages of his chapter called "VW doesn't
stop (brakes)"  (I also have the Bentley book).
b" I ordered new drums, shoes, cylinders, bleeder screws and caps from
the bus depot. I did a side-by-side comparison of three online VW
parts vendors and bus depot prices and descriptions were adequate.
We'll see how fast the parts get here, but I'm in no hurry.

Thanks for reading this much. I feel pretty good about my progress so
far. This list is the best thing going. I'll be lurking around and
checking the archives a lot.

Question:
I salvaged a decent-looking brake servo from a 1976 Type 2 at Pick 'N
Pull last weekend. Mine is rust-ridden and scary-looking. Will this
fit in my 1971? Is there a way to tell if the part is any good or
should I just spring the couple-few hundred for a rebuilt one?


BullyG
