Date: Fri, 02 Jul 2004 22:35:59 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com
From: "DANIEL CURRAN" <DANIEL.CURRAN(-at-)learnlink.mcmaster.ca>
Subject: re: 1st T4 engine drop - please help

Daniel; 

I have just been through my first engine drop and reinstall (with lots of
help!) in my 74 Westy, after an engine drop/reinstall in my '71 upright. 

"I'm wondering how difficult it is to tear down the engine and replace the
seals, 
oil cooler, heads, and clutch." 

I didn't find the T4 engine any more difficult to work on once it's out of
the bus. I replaced every seal and gasket (except for the rear crank
seal), pilot bearing (that was a b#tch!!),  clutch, sandblasted/painted
the tin, fan shroud, R&R'd the heating/exhaust system, etc. etc. Nothing
too hard there, but it can be frustrating. RE: replacing the heads - I was
told that if the heads need doing due to worn valves/guides, etc., you can
count on the bottom end needing work too (i.e. cam, lifters, etc.). Others
will verify this, but my current sense is that if it needs head work, it
needs a bottom end job too. 

"I've done the same thing one a Type 1 engine on my 71 I had and I'm 
wondering how much harder the Type 4 is in terms of actually working on it 
and putting it back in." 

As above - I didn't find it harder to work on when it was out of the bus,
but it is harder to do the pull/install. The bus needs to be jacked up
quite high, and it was necessary to remove my dual carbs to clear the body
(you won't have to do this of course).  The way we did my drop was to
lower the tranny (careful to disconnect the shifter linkage, ground strap,
etc.) to make the angle for the engine pull/install more reasonable. We
didn't remove the tranny at all, just dropped it using a separate jack to
support it's weight carefully, if that makes sense. Then we just jacked
the tranny back up and replaced the hanger bolts while the engine was in
the garage, and reversed the process for reinstallation.  I wouldn't say
it's 50 times harder, maybe twice as hard/awkward. The engine is
significantly heavier, and the angle much more difficult to achieve to
mate the engine/tranny (as opposed to just rolling that upright right into
the back end of a 71!!!), but judicious use of separate jacks on the
engine and tranny, plus/minus some blocks of wood, make it possible. 


"I'm hoping I could get it all back together around the first week 
of August." 

I don't know how you work, but I work at glacial speed. We pulled the
engine in November and I didn't get to any serious work until mid
February. The engine wasn't ready to go back in the van until then end of
May, and it took another few weeks to hook everything back up, replace
cables, and make it roadworthy. For me, it was one of those jobs where I
kept running into the "well, as long as I'm here, I might as well..."
syndrome. That was working almost every evening I could possibly find free
(usually two evenings/week), and at least 8 hours of work each Saturday
and Sunday. Just plan accordingly, and try not to set yourself absolute
deadlines, or you may get frustrated and stop enjoying the process (don't
ask me how I know...). I've been singing the Music Machine song of the
slug every day lately... 

"Have patience, have patience, don't be in such a hurry
  If you get impatient, you only start to worry
  Just think of all the times when others have to wait for you." 

good luck. Look forward to hearing how it goes! 

Best, 
Dan
74 Westy
Toronto
