From: "Gary G. Martin" <ggmartin(-at-)coin.org>
To: <danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 3 Jul 2004 03:01:21 -0500
Subject: dropping Type IV engine

>Listees,
>
>I am considering dropping my engine in my 82 Westy.  Basically
I'm wondering
>if you guys think that I can pull it off. I feel pretty confident
about
>preping for dropping and the actualy engine drop as I'm going to
have a
>friend with me that's really good at this sort of thing. I'm
doing a
>compression test this weekend and if I have to replace the heads,
I'm
>wondering how difficult it is to tear down the engine and replace
the seals,
>oil cooler, heads, and clutch.

Hello,

if you rebuilt a year 1971 1600 type VW air cooled engine, you can
rebuild a Type IV, but you will have to take more notes and draw
more pictures because the tin is much more complicated and you
cannot find diagrams in of everything in the books.

these are just some random order suggestions I can think of on the
spur of the moment

get lots of boxes or buckets and take apart groups of things and
throw the parts in one box only.

make lots of drawings. and descriptive lists of the parts.  Sure,
it seems like a simple part, that can only fit one way, but after
3 weeks and a gazillion simple parts.... you will waste a lot of
time reinventing the wheel and figuring out how each part fits.
The worst waste of time is when you figure out that you can't get
a certain piece of tin to fit, unless you take off the last 10
pieces you put on.

You will not waste your time with a list of each part as you took
it off. you can then use this list in reverse to put the
engine/trans back together. Mark all the wires with notes written
on tape folded over the wires. Don't trust the note to stay on and
make a redundant wiring diagram. It is much easier to read your
own blueprint type wiring diagram, than try to go from a
electrical schematic. An electrical schematic is a nice neat
diagram but has very little to do with how the wires are actually
layed out as in your own blueprint type diagram that shows where
everywire actually lays.

I take lots of digital pictures as as progress . It is really fun
to compare the filthy busted engine pictures with the finished
product reliable engine. The pictures also keep you from having to
tear apart the engine, because you can't remember if you put in
that bearing dowel pin or not.

If your engine died from a head problem and you don't know the
history of the engine rebuilds or mileage, then rebuild the engine
all the way to the crankshaft.

drop the engine and transmission as one unit and put it in as one
unit. It is much easier to line up the transmission shaft going
into the engine on the ground. the newer busses, with the welded
on engine rear body panel are much harder to align the engine and
transmission because you can't slide the engine straight in.

If you don't know the re-greasing history of the constant velocity
joints. then clean them and buy new boots or new CV joints while
you are waiting for the engine parts to come back from the
machinist. Might as well look at the brakes too.

If the transmission is really filthy and you have been topping off
the gear oil then replace those seals too. this is much easier to
do on the bench than laying under the bus in the snow.

Be very very nice to your neighbor, it will probably take longer
than three weeks.
