Date: Sat, 3 Jul 2004 05:43:54 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jon Wade <jonwade88(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Trip report and brake light woes

Hello everyone,

My move went fine.  Left Tucson Sunday night and
arrived here in Robbinsville, NC Thursday morning. 
1,994 miles, 21 MPG, 1/4 quart of oil.

Took the interstates till Little Rock, then took US-70
into Memphis, and then US-64 all the way to outside
Chattanooga, where it joins I-24.

US-64 is a great way to go for bus travellers.  55 MPH
speed limit, scenic landscapes, not many semis, and I
think less miles than taking I-40.  I-24 has a crazy
downhill section heading into Chattanooga which I
descended at 5 AM in the pouring rain with some white
knuckle action.  Boy, people sure do like to fly on
the interstates.  I did get to pass a chevy corsica
pulling a u-haul...go bus go!!

My bus made me so proud!  It really performed
flawlessly.  I need some new window and door seals now
that we are going to be in the rainforest for a while.
 The straps holding my sailboat on wicked in some
water, which dripped on my neck.  Kept me awake.

Yesterday, I checked the valves and timing, and
changed the oil.  I've got a mysterious problem with
my brake lights staying on.  It has to be a short or
something, because sometimes they work flawlessly.  I
put in a new pressure switch last night, and that
fixed it for 20 mins, but then the problem started
again.  When the connector is pulled off of the
switch, the lights are ALWAYS off.  When the connector
is pressed on, SOMETIMES, the brake lights stay on
with the pedal up.  When you press the pedal, they
turn off for 1/4 second, and then turn on again. 
Never go off entirely.  Turning on the running lights
doesn't seem to affect it.  

They were working at the end last night, and are
working great right now, which is good cause I am
about to go to my aunt's, and am going 150 miles
tonight to go to my friends' July 4th party. 

I am an amature with a multimeter.  To check for a
short, should I look for resistance on the ohm scale
when I test terminal 81 to 82a (with the key off) ?? 
I kind of wish they were either working or not
working.  I need to evict the gremlins.  

Thanks everyone for the good wishes and help for my
trip.  It was a blast.

Jon Wade
jonwade88(-at-)yahoo.com

P.S. On the whole trip, I saw a total of 2 ACVW on the
road.  NOT ONE BUS OF ANY VINTAGE! And I was
looking....                                           
