Date: Sat, 24 May 2003 21:42:13 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Greg Thompson <gthompso(-at-)mailer.fsu.edu>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] it runs! but noisy!

On Sat, May 24, 2003 at 10:22:21PM -0400, Greg Thompson wrote:
> the valves adjusted.  Those I turned in two turns.  The ones that had
> not leaked down I turned in a half turn.  

With the absense of oil in the lifters (i.e. bled down) the lifters
should still have a somewhat stiff spring that holds the moving piston
in place with a little force. What I have done while setting the
valves on my 79 when I'm unsure if the darn things have bled down is
to loosen the adjusters & nuts. Then use one hand make sure the
pushrod seems seated inthe lifter depression by feel. I then tighten
the adjuster screw till it just touches the lifter. From there I go in
1.5 turns further. With no oil in the lifter the spring will hold it
to its furthest point with no problems for setting the valves. This
spring however sure wont hold well against the pressure of opening &
closing that valve thousands of times a minute without the help of the
hydraulic fluid (oil) used to stiffen up that connection.

> I lapped the cylinders to the heads and upon list advice did not put
> the gaskets between the heads and the cylinders.  

Did you put any shims under the cylinder jugs to make up for the
increased compression ratio by removing the gaskets?

>	Does anyone have any speculation as to where this noise
> might be coming from?  

Well when I suspect a exhaust leak I always run to the shop vac first.
I can shove the end in the exhaust & turn it on blow. With a cool
engine you can use your hands to feel all over the engine. If you find
an area where you can feel a breeze you have found an exhaust leak.
Also you said all the exhaust nuts are tight, but did you use new
exhaust gaskets, or the worn out ones that were most likely on there
before?

--
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"?
