Date: Sun, 25 May 2003 10:15:55 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvwbus(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] AFM adjustment of spring tension-how?

Tom said:

>idle mixture control.  And no, the AFM flap/resistance circuit is *not*
>uninvolved when the engine is idling.  The minute you start the engine 
>the
>air vane moves from its "resting" position to a position corresponding 
>the
>the engine's air demand, be this "idle" or "wide open throttle."

Well although this is correct for the idling discussion involved it should be noted the WOT statement is not correct for L-jet's with a WOT switch which as we all know includes variably 2L buses and most Vanagons.  In those systems WOT mixture is a preset item totally independent of the AFM.  In point of fact as the response of the AFM is not at all linear it's resolution gets worse with more and more air.  This is why it isn't practical (doesn't really work despite what lots of idiots who want to sell you big motors will have you believe) to try to recalibrate an AFM to flow more fuel for a big engine, particualrly one with a WOT switch.  And to tell the truth I'm not sure how much idle mixture is involved in the AFM either, I've never tinkered with that end of the spectrum but it seems to me that I recall reading idle mixture is a preset as well, perhaps RPM based as VW L-jet never had an idle switch.  As to the whole resetting your AFM anyway my only advice is be careful and don't make rash adjustments, shouldn't take more than a few clicks to restore it to stock operation which is too lean anyway so all in all I think the L-jet AFM probably gets better with age to a certain point.  By the time one is really THAT worn out spring wise the resistance tracks are going to have been long gone so unless you fiddle with shifting the little board a bit or whatever you aren't likely gaining much.  Adjusting one with merely an O2 sensor is somewhat touchy BTW, not really up to the task, don't get me wrong I've done it now several times but probably better to seek an emissions machine and a dyno.  Or in the case in point, rebuild the "miraculously long lived" engine already.

Purely my thoughts of course.

John

wvwbus(-at-)yahoo.com
