From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Mon, 26 May 2003 11:25:59 -0500 (CDT)
To: ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] die grinder

Anthony,

You are correct sir--100% on your tool longevity findings.

For Myself, ME--I find Snap On tools in all my drawers of my condominium
type extravaganga box--and for electrical type tools ONLY Milwaukee will
do.

However, whenever I seem to expound upon the merits of using good tools
on any list---the census seems to be I am a bit outlandish in my tool
demands, and therfore for the Bus / Van owner, whatever,  anything will
be just fine.

( this goes along with the roll and brush paint job threads, Binks look
alike spray guns, etc. instead of spending some bucks and doing it right
)

With all this info in my walking database, I chose not to elaborate on
anything that I found that was NOT of a higher quality--just a tool to
"get the job done", which seems to be of the most popular concensus.

I would also like to point out that the specific tool I found at
Harbortowski freight--was not the cheapest I had found---It had a good
name on it too--"Chicago Tool"-- ( I have never heard of it ) 

Have Fun, Be Cool, and Adios Amigo--

Later,

Terry

 
E-mail message   
 
CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net writes: 
<< James, 
After reading your posting, just for grins I did a search on electric
die grinder's-- 
There is a whole bunch for sale-Harbor Freight to mention one of the
purveyors. >> 
I'm afraid I've worked with H-F equipment too often (some even mine- mea
culpa) to recommend almost anything that has a motor or is go- ing to be
in constant use...There's a reason the stuff's cheap and it can't just
be the exchange rates...'Sides, if it fails, who ya gonna call? Sending
it back - if there's a warranty - is time consuming and if out of
warranty, who's got parts? My buddy bought two 4 1/2 inch grind- ers for
less than my Milwaukee and burnt both out just trying to cut up sheet
metal...The tools didn't outlast the discs...YMMV but I really doubt
it... 
Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E.
