Date: Thu, 23 Nov 2006 04:43:54 -0500
From: Jules <jules.herr(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: '71 Brake Warning Light

On 11/22/06, phil cain <bearsvw2000(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
> The brake light on the dash is turned on
> two ways, one is by the emergency brake handle not
> being pushed all the way in. the other way is by the
> shuttle valve in the master cylinder, being over
> positioned either to the front or the rear brakes,

Phil,

The '71 has no facility for activating the brake light switch with the
ebrake handle. That is - there is no electrical switch in my parking
brake assembly, it is my understanding that this feature didn't come
along until later years. I'm going with the other half or your
suggestion.

Chai wrote:
"well brakes brakes brakes... boy i have had my dealings past few weeks now...
i gotta rebleed my brakes maybe this weekend ... my e brake light
comes on when i push the brakes but on the third pump if i pump it
wont come on when pushing down on brake pedal........."

Chai,

While that light may be an e-brake warning light (what year is your
bus?) it also signals brake problems or impending failure. Steve Dolan
explains it pretty well in the archives :
http://www.type2.com/archive/type2/040262.html .

Bookwus wrote:
"Hmmm.......just a thought......is it possible that the electrical
connections at the brake light itself might not be correct?  It is
pretty easy to get them mixed up - one has to really look hard to find
the hook-up numbers on that light housing."

Well, I doubt it is a problem with the wiring to the light. I haven't
changed anything back behind the dash and I never had a problem until
today when I replaced the MC and the two switches. As for the
switches, I am not suspecting any miswiring - these are three pronged
switches connected via block connectors. It would be impossible to mix
the individual plugs to the terminals up. I also marked the two block
connectors when I removed them (front and back) to make sure I got
them reconnected correctly. I think that rules out most possible
electrical options (except for a possible faulty switch) and points
towards a mechanical issue.

Will rebleed the entire system before driving today, if that doesn't
work I'll reinstall the old brake switches and see if that changes
anything.

There are numerous items in the archive about this exact same
occurrence on '71's - but I couldn't find any that described the
solution. I will report back. I'm going with the guess that the system
is not fully bled or one (or both) of the switches is faulty.



thanks
peace
jules
'71 1600 dp
