From: Shad <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 27 Nov 2006 11:35:51 -0500
Subject: Cleaning, waiting on parts

Hi All, 

Well, the bus has been down for just over a month now.  It spat out #3
spark plug, and it already had timeserts in #3 and #4, so I ordered
another set of heads, stepping up to the bigger valves.  

It's a '77 2L FI.  

I'm in the process of sandblasting and repainting the engine tin (gawd
there's lots of nooks and crannies in there!), an cleaning up everything
else also.  It'll go a long way to making the engine compartment look
better.  Also replacing hoses, gaskets, seals, etc, etc, etc while I'm
in there.   Clutch is in great shape, and the TO bearing is like new.
Even got a new Busted Bus timing scale to dress up the engine.  

My questions, 

Since I'm going to bigger valves, I'm assuming the mixture will need to
be tweaked, as it'll run a tad lean.  How do I go about adjusting that?

I'm scrimping and saving pennies so I can ditch the 009 an put on an
SVDA from the Bus Depot.  Any special "gotchas" related to that?  I
recall discussions of a washer that'll fall into the case if you're not
careful.  Can it be fished out?  How do I check if the PO dropped one in
there?

The heads that came off used head gaskets.  I'd rather use head gaskets
when reassembling it, because I don't want to have to pull the jugs to
add the spacers.  Is there any telltale machinework that I need to look
for on the head that would require me to ditch head gaskets and install
the jug shims? I don't have the proper ring compressor to reinstall the
jugs if I pull them.

I'd like to paint the cooling fan.  Is it necessary to disassemble it?
Any gotchas involved in doing so?

The bus originally had air conditioning installed.  PO removed it (and
the compressor)  There was the small pulley rattling around behind the
cooling fan.  Because I don't have an AC system to install, I plan to
remove that pulley and keep it in the "spare parts" bin.  Do I need to
shim anything? (doesn't look like I have to, but I want to make sure)

The hoses on the fuel injectors look good.  Supple, no cracks, not
brittle.  Should I bother changing them?  Looks like a PITA to get the
hose off the injector itself.  (and yes, I'm buying the smooth clamps to
secure the hoses)  The seals on the fuel injectors were shot, btw.
Crusty, dried, crumbling.  Ugh.  

The local VW mechanic recommended that when I install the pushrod tubes,
that I use new seals and build up a "slope" on the head side with RTV so
that the oil won't "pool" at the seal and leak out slowly.  I was a tad
skeptical, *except* that he's the one that repaired the motor in my bus
(before I bought it), that's what he did to the head end of the pushrod
tubes, and it didn't leak a single *drop* from there.  He's got more
than 30 years of experience, and I've seen his work.  It's good work.
So is the RTV a good idea?  Bad idea?  Anybody else tried that trick?

To get the motor back in, I'd like to drop the rear of the transmission
so I can get the motor mated up easier.  Can I just loosen the front
tranny mount and let the transmission pivot on that (cv's already off
the tranny, of course), and let the rear of the transmission down with a
jack, or will that bugger up my front transmission mount and linkage at
the nosecone?  Is it possible to do it this way?  

The PO used liberal amounts of silicon to seal the oil cooler tin piece.
I'll be replacing that rectangular seal (at $17, ouch!).  How can I
check to make sure it's sealing well to the oil cooler?  Are there any
bits that I need to check and make sure aren't missing?  I can't find
the link that shows all the cooling tin pieces.  

Sorry for the long post, but I want to do this right so I don't have to
pull it back out and do it over. :/ 

Shad H. 
