Date: Sun, 06 Jul 2003 16:58:00 -0600
From: elijah(-at-)sisna.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: intake air vent rust removal (see pics)

    Despite my bus having only it's original coat of factory paint it's 
body is fairly solid and rust free in the more important places.  As I 
prep it for paint I do want to make sure all of the cancer is removed so 
that it can have a better-than-factory lasting shine.  There is one snag 
that does have me wondering.  What we have here is what appears to be a 
regular late bay intake air vent.

http://users.sisna.com/baca1/bigvent.jpg

    When we take a close look it gets a little bit more scarey.  Rust is 
creeping into the seams of the metal and making me most nervous of all 
is that it's coating the metal gas pipes for the ventalation system, 
however not penetrating through.  Take a look.

http://users.sisna.com/baca1/rustyvent.jpg

    I bought the car engine-less from a po who had it sitting in the 
yard.  He sold it because the city forced him to.

http://users.sisna.com/baca1/hornets.jpg

    Meanwhile these guys made their home.  I've removed the bulk of this 
abandoned nest but a small section still remains as a reminder of their 
presence.  My brother who suffers trauma from a sting sprays these in 
carb cleaner and lights them on fire.  NOT a good idea, however 
effective.  Our super beetle hasn't had hornet problems since.

    I can get the hornet nest out with no problem.  It's the rust I'm 
worried about mainly because it's such a difficult spot to get to.  I've 
conteplated a few possibilities and would like to know what's best.  Is 
sandblasting an option?  Perhaps an anti rust product like POR-15 (which 
I havn't used yet).  After all it's not like nobody's looking in there. 
 What about cutting it open and welding it back.  The thought scares me. 
 I also notice a seam behind the headliner inside the car.  Can I open 
things up from in there?  I'm moslty curious to know what people have 
done in similar situations.  No doubt I'm not the only one who's hiding 
some rust back there.

    Thanks for the advice,

    elijah
