From: "Richard Kerr" <rich.kerr(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <MSchilling(-at-)schawk.com>, <info(-at-)zproducts.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Jul 2003 20:56:04 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Zbed from Zproducts availability

Hi Martin --

About a year ago I pursued the Z Products Z-Bed, and got the same
non-response from the company that you did. They even sounded annoyed when I
called and asked them to put me on a waiting list -- they really didn't want
to start and keep such a list. (This is what a friend of mine calls "being
in business in spite of yourself.") Don't hold your breath...

I posted the item on the lists here, hoping other individuals would want one
and that our friendly vendors active on the list might each order a few for
inventory, reaching the required batch quantity of 30 that Z Products
mentioned to me. About 8 people let me know that they too subsequently
called Z Products to express their interest. Nothing came of it.

By the way, everyone, this is not the same as a camper "Z-bed." this product
uses a regular bus back seat (and its seat back) to convert into the bed
surface, so one can have a stock-looking non-camper and still have a bed in
the bus. (Think "stealth camper.") It consists of a bunch of bracketry that
attaches to the seat framing to hinge it upward and forward into a level-bed
position.

I'm still anxious to get a Z-bed kit of this type. Anyone have one spare???
8-)

-- Rich

 Martin Schilling wrote:

>Anyone out there know if Zproducts in Oregon has the Zbed kit (for =
non-Westy buses) available again? Their web site (zproducts.com) shows =
them but last I checked they had stopped producing them saying "lack of =
demand". My email wasn't answered yet from them.

...and also p-mailed:

>Hi, after searching the archives on the Type2 list I saw your message re:
the zbed kit from oregon. Any luck in getting them tooling up for a new
production run? I've been calling them over the last couple of years without
success. I just emailed them today, as they show them on their web site
still. Hope to hear from you soon. cheers, martin.
