Date: Fri, 17 Dec 2004 12:19:08 -0800 (PST)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type_2_list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re: VW Trends - Compilation

Back in the early 1990's, when I was more apted to be at VW shows, (eg no kids,
dotcom income and smaller PITI pmnts) I had occassion to suggest to the other
magazine the concept of creating and releasing previously published articles or
complete magazines via website or other available media.

My suggestion was to create a "secondary market" and enforce, not undercut, the
desire of collecting the old magazines. To me, it was a touchdown of an idea to
create additional revenue from existing proprietary assets.
I was thinking of special off-shoots of photos only, bikini babes from back in
the day, separate CD or subdirectory of tech articles or whatever could be
imagined. I pitched a members only password "protected" access by subscription
number.

My idea was met with blank stares and was quickly dismissed by the easliy
recognized names at the magazines' booth. Keep in mind that the web was NOT as
developed or as familiar as it is today. The old ISF-Mosaic browser had just
been sold off to an upstart company- Netscape. Compact discs were not popcorn
and no-brainer as much as today.

I still encourage any and all magazines to consider doing this... IF they have
the rights of reproduction and liability releases for the photographs of the
people/cars. At least VWTrends has changed publishers at least once... so the
back issues may NOT be property of the current publisher.

I hesitate to mention theSamba.com and muse publicly about what thoughts may
have been discussed privately between my friend, Mr. Barnes, and self/others. I
did suggest selling banner ads prior to their appearence. I was one of the
first to suggest "thanking" Everett for any sales that he may have made
possible. 

Separately, without any connection to any popular website or email group, let
me bluntly say that financial compensation for services rendered (such as
providing a free website) are taxable income. Sometimes in a given
mythical-hypothetical situation a webmaster/site provider may NOT wish to, at
this time, deal with added tax hassles. Suggesting that someone "give thanks"
may not be taken literally. It would require persons using a site to CLUE IN
and figure out that saying "Thanks dude" may not be what is really intended.

Support the Troops, eh? Comprehende, Si? Get it?

Changing a very popular free website into a pay per view may be trickier than
converting everyone to Sirrius Radio. Good luck to all parties concerned.
Jim Ellis
Phoenix, AZ

PS: to show you what I (don't) know... I accidentally sent this msg to the
vintage list the first time that it went out. I admit to being VERY much the
observer toward the VW scene now-a-days.
