Date: Sat, 18 Dec 2004 22:16:30 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: AVP problems

I was hoping to get the AVP engine installed into my friend's 72 bus today
but ran into a couple of problems.

The first problem was that I couldn't rotate the engine more than 360 in
either direction before it hit something. By the sound of the noise
(ringing) I guessed it was the flywheel and removed it.

We bought a new flywheel from AVP because it was half the price of having
one step-cut locally. There was nothing wrong with the flywheel but it
wasn't able to clear the case. AVP as part of sealing the flywheel side of
the case, tapped and plugged the two oil gallery plugs on the right side but
JB welded the left side because the plug is shallow (sump return, fuel pump,
etc).

The problem was that they used too much JB weld and the dowels on the back
of the flywheel for the TDC sensor couldn't clear it. (BTW looking at these
cases it appears the sensor was added for the 73 model year).

I carefully ground down the excess JB weld and that solved the flywheel
problem. I know they have their own special flywheel for testing and just
shipped you a flywheel in the box separately but I don't understand why they
can't mount it when they install the flywheel seal and shims and set the
endplay. This problem should have been caught at the factory.

The second and more serious problem is that #4 exhaust won't close. All
other three cylinders are leaking down 4-6% past the rings on this never
fired engine but #4 is leaking horribly (20% or more). I squirted a little
oil in the exhaust port to watch it crawl up the valve stem.

Up until this point the rebuild looked good.

I guess I have to call AVP on Monday. Wish me luck contacting them: they
rarely answer the phone. I've searched the archives for AVP issues and they
seem to have issues answering the phone because it's a very small business.

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
