Date: Wed, 22 Aug 2001 20:44:13 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: HH <hhouck(-at-)mediaone.net>
Subject: Dove Blue touch up - OT guns


I'm doing a "get it on the road safely" resto job on a '66 Riviera I 
rescued from a local salvage yard. It would have been reduced to a heap of 
scrap metal if left to the sawzall packing locals (including me) out in 
that yard.

So, the windshield rust has been conquered with epoxy and POR putty. 
Stopped by the Home Despot behemoth to pick up some rattle can blue that 
might match, but nothing close. At the counter pro painters were getting 
their swatches scanned and gallons tinted to match EXACTLY. So, I handed 
over the dove blue radio block off  (that didn't go with the '60 DC to 
Robert Davis years ago) and the guy said the shine (41 years old!) would 
throw off the computer. At my request he scanned the back side and made up 
a quart of semi-gloss enamel. He dabbed a finger of it on the plate and hit 
it with a hair dryer. Perfect match. So I'll brush it on, sand it smooth 
and see how it lasts in Anderson Valley, CA with it's new owner.  Today, 
after it dried, looks great, but a bit darker than the sun faded paint. 
Buffing out will help smooth it out. $9  a quart. In the interest of cheap 
touch ups or restorations, here's the secret codes. Your methods may vary.

Behr semigloss, Accent base G (5670)
The label has the colorants on the left and columns of OZ, 48 and 96

B - lamp black     oz=1  48=9   96=1
C - yellow oxide   oz=0  48=8   96=0
E - thalo blue       oz=1  48=29  96=1

  - Harry in Fresno

p.s. Yesterday a local deputy sheriff, 26 years old, was blown away by a 
burglar using one of TEN loaded guns he found in a foothill home. Lock up 
your firearms, please. I know these hard working people protecting homes 
while you're away and they would appreciate your efforts, to say the very 
least. Yeah, the guy was a criminal, but he didn't carry a gun into the 
home and now there's a wife and 2.5 kids without a father.  

