Date: Fri, 21 Jun 2002 11:26:08 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: <VV> Engine Stands and Wives - thanks Holly!

Got home last night and decided it was time to get that Corvair 110 on my 
homebuilt engine stand.

The only problems were - would the stand really hold? I built it as a final 
project for a welding course I had to take for my engineering degree (still 
working on it). I built it with heavy materials but would the welds be 
worth a damn? It held a full Beetle engine...

The other problem was how to get it up in the air onto the stand in the 
first place? I lacked some weak minded strong backed help. My son (2 years 
old) would like to help but he still lacks a bit of bulk....

So after alot of thinking (dangerous habit generally speaking) I asked my 
wife to see if she could help me lift it up and slide the yoke (already 
bolted to the bell housing) into the head of the stand.

("So that's what they call it these days - know whatahmean, know 
whatahmean, nudge, nudge... A nod's as good as a wink to a blind bat! SAY 
NO MORE!")

Anyhow my wife develops this plan - we lay the engine stand on it's back - 
the head on the ground, and then stand the engine up in the head and then 
tilt the whole thing forward - me lifting the engine, she pushing down on 
the end of the stand. Lever physics in action!

Ta da!!!!!

My wife then proceeded to tease me about putting a Chevy Corvair engine 
into a Volkswagen bus. I begin lecturing about the safety of being able to 
run 65 or 70 with highway traffic versus 60-65 with a 2.0 4 banger running 
wide open for hours and hours everytime we travel.

She says but it's not German... I say but maybe all these other German guys 
like Porsche patterned their 6 cylinder after the Corvair... Subaru did 
right? Can't be a bad engine if the Japanese used it as a basic idea right? 
(Don't know if this is true). Since Porsche designed the basic VW and then 
the Type IV engine in our bus and the Corvair was aircooled and came before 
his 6 cylinder they've got to be related and compatible in the big Teutonic 
scheme of things right?

Doesn't sound any more logical this morning than it did last night.....

The engine is locked up, that's a couple of years in garages, in sheds 
(we've moved a few times). I pulled the carbs off and set them aside and 
then pulled the spark plugs and dumped oil in the sparkplug holes.

Unfortunately oil ran out of both exhaust logs for 4 out of 6 spark plugs. 
I'll be pulling the rocker arms tonight to see if the valves are stuck open 
or if the last guy ran this thing until it overheated and died thus 
wrecking the heads.

My plan is to unstuck the engine and clean it externally and then put it in 
service as is. I'll run it on the stand and tune and clean it. Once I test 
run it I'll know more about whether I need to build it I guess. Hope not. 
Got plenty of good cores with 1.5 LM engines.

Tonight begins a random concoction of oil and solvents to get the engine 
loose. I'll also be pumping air into the cylinders to listen for leaks to 
get a better idea of it's condition.

I'm powdercoating the tin this week with a local service. A VW friend and I 
are splitting the cost of sandblasting and powdercoating and getting a huge 
pile done.



Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

