Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2003 00:54:11 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: timing lights?

>From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
>Date: Wed, 11 Jun 2003 18:01:33 -0400
>
>hey guys-it is my birthday this week, so I thought I might treat myself
>to a timing light....I imagine I should get one with an adjustable
>advance knob, and an inductive pickup. do you guys have any
>recommendations on what to look for, or specific manufacturers?

There seem to be about three levels of inductive timing light:
Kombi - Trigger only.
Standard - Trigger, advance knob.
Deluxe - Trigger, digital advance, tach.

I bought a Mac timing light off Ebarf for about $100 a couple of years
ago.  It has the advance adjustment and a nifty digital display that
shows the advance setting or RPM.  Snap-On has a similar unit that sells
used for around the same price.  Kind of high-tech for a Bus but I justify
it by using it to work on my '90 F(-at-)rd and some mid-90s G(-at-)(-at-) M(-at-)tr(-at-)s as well.

Some features you may want to look for include a trigger lock (just like
an electric drill) so you don't wear out your finger and detachable leads
so you can easily replace them if they get thrashed.

If you anticipate working on many 6 V VWs, you'll need a small 12 V
battery to power the timing light.  The Mac timing light works fine on my
Bus, but I use a small gel-cell to power it.  The pickup still goes to the
spark plug wire to trigger the light.  A 12 V lantern battery, or two 6 V
lantern batteries, or even 8 D batteries in a holder will all work fine as
the timing light doesn't need that much juice.  If you're really clever you
can do it with the VW's battery, one external 6 V lantern battery, and a
clip lead.

Some older timing lights have just a spring connector to the #1 spark plug
wire and no battery connections.  These will work, but they often use a
neon bulb that is very hard to see in the daylight.  Almost all of the
lights that have a spark plug wire connection and a battery connection
use a xenon strobe, which makes a nice bright flash.

Matt Roberds
