From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2003 11:49:13 EDT
To: Oldscholvw(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] bus on the highway

In a message dated 6/11/2003 7:18:23 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
Oldscholvw(-at-)aol.com writes:

<< 
 I am glad to see that Dawn and crew came out of this alive
 
 One thing buses need are larger rear lights, look at barndoor and later 50s 
 tailights , 
 how far can you really see them ?
 and if you are going 50mph and the trucker 70-80mph , well by the time he 
 sees your lights its too late......
  >>
I'm glad no one got more than a bruise. 
 & I'll second that about visibility.  

my barndoor, which has the tiny tallights and paint washed off by acid rain 
and sun.

http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/index.mv?photo+7035.jpg
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/gallery/index.mv?photo+7034.jpg

is not the most visible vehicle going down the road.   It's kinda a dark spot 
that people's eyes pass right over as of it doesn't exist.   I got a bunch of 
reflectors at the dollar store and stuck them on the back.   Maybe I should 
have stuck them to magnets to stick them on.     I tend to arrange for a tail 
car that's brightly painted with brighter lights to follow if I'm going to a 
show via the freeway (at 50mph).

Funny thing is people sometimes pass the tailcar, then zip in behind the 53, 
and it takes them a little while to realise the old, ratty bus is actually 
really going to keep driving slow.

Having a bright white bumper really helps others see you.  Some point after I 
got the 65 painted I went and painted the rear bumper.  A friend said that 
bright white bumper really made the bus more visible.  

but I think the paint issue is crucial.  If I got the old bus painted it 
would be much more visible and noticed, thus safer.  Bright reflective striped 
tape on the back would be good.   When I get my truck going I'll paint the bumper 
red/white stripes.

guy with a bd panel in the area has a big stick on magnetic sign he puts on 
the back that says something like 

"36hp at work
max speed 50mph
no turn signals- watch for hand signals,
brake light   ->"                                            ..............  
I want one

driving 60mph on the I-5 freeway does not feel unsafe.  In this area. (PNW)  
In the central valley they drive like a video game, but, I'm not there very 
much :)  

I guess my suggestion is make sure your bus is visible, at least rattle can 
that bumper bright white, and make sure the taillights are bright.  Some 
drivers are just idiots and oughta be confined, but at least make sure they see you.
