From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 12 Jun 2003 20:27:03 -0400
Subject: lead on a '69 hotwire? and AIRS help

Well
I got a call last week from Stewart, he has a '71 hightop camper. Problems
with clutch, he thought it was the throw out bearing, and he had never
replaced one before, actually he had never taken his engine out. so he
bought the clutch kit, I headed over early sunday morning and we had at it.
it was my first time pulling one of those double jointed things, (rear
axle)luckily i had heard bits and pieces about it here and there, and with
muir, we figuredout how to support the transmission while we pulled the
engine.

the throw-out bearing was totally sheared, and dangling in there, i don't
know how he drove the thing at all.

so we get the new one out of the box, and I am thinking this doesn't look
right, but maybe it is a new fangled one...but no it was thew wrong one. so
a couple calls on a sunday, no luck finding one. so we let the engine sit.
on monday stewart finds one, and we continue on tuesday, install the correct
clutch, and then have trouble getting the engine in, we pull it out and try
about 4 times. it just will not go in, turns out we just needed to wiggle
the crankshaft pulley back and forth a little..and it slid right in. luckily
i never had to do that with mine, but maybe because my transmission is fixed
in place, and doesn't wiggle when I install the engine.

so a pseudo AIRS rescue(he found my name via AIRS) and he is on his way to
Galveston, TX in the next week or two.

He also told me of a '69 bus that has been sitting in his neighbors yard for
years, the neighbor used to sleep out there in the summer, as it was nice
and cool. anyway he passed away, and the landlord wants the bus off the
property. so I can get it if i can somehow get it off the property. the PO
always contended that it would start right up. I don't think I will be able
to get any keys, so I am looking for how to hot wire the thing.

I was planning on bringing a booster pak(to jumpstart), my multimeter-to
check basic electrical, and some oil to put in the case. I think the bus is
only about three miles from my house. I probably can't keep it(too much
going on right now)but I don't want it to go to the junkyard. I will be
checking it out in the next couple of days...any suggestions on getting it
rolling appreciated...

-kevin
somerville, ma
'65 kombi
'71 sqbk
