Date: Tue, 20 Jul 2004 10:54:11 +1000
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>
Subject: Weber progressive - my experiences

Hi listees!

I have read with interest the experiences of fellow sufferers of the weber 
progressive and thought that my experiences may be of interest/help.

The bus...
I bought my bus about three years ago. It is a manual 76 camper convert 
with a 2l engine. It came with the weber prog topped with one of those nice 
chrome air cleaners.

The problem...
As any weber prog owner will know, the problem is cold weather. If it's 
just cool (< 10C or 50f), it takes ages before it runs smoothly. If it's 
any colder you may as well walk! (I'm in Melbourne, Australia so it rarely 
gets < 5C.)

The solution - a work in progress (no pun intended)
This is a description of the various carb-related problems I have 
encountered and my solutions.

The idle mixture screw had been wound way out causing the bus to stall 
after idling for a few minutes. Rather inconvenient in a traffic jam. A 
friend driving behind me spotted black smoke when I accelerated after 
idling and diagnosed the problem. A quick roadside adjustment and I was 
away. Too easy!

The fast idle wasn't functioning. At first I didn't know there was one 
until I found a reference in the type2 archives. I was also put off the 
scent by a mechanic who claimed that the carb didn't have one! The fast 
idle adjustment screw didn't touch the metal tab it is supposed to bear 
against even when screwed fully in. To get it to work required bending a 
metal linkage to bring the tab in contact with the screw! Getting the fast 
idle going has made a huge difference to starting and warming up.

The accelerator linkage was a problem from the start. The initial problem 
was that the linkage on the carb was too small (cable connected too close 
to the throttle shaft). This meant that full throttle travel occurred over 
a very small travel on the pedal. This made moving away from stopped very 
difficult. A VW mechanic replaced the linkage on the carb with a longer one 
last year. What a difference! But...now when the pedal was on the metal 
(which was fairly often), the second barrel wasn't opening. I fixed this 
recently by replacing the linkage that connects between the rod joined to 
the pedal and the cable with a longer linkage (home-made). Woohoo! I can 
exceed 100kmh (60mph).

Last but not least was to get a bit of hot air into the carb. I had 
purchased an air cleaner from an early 80's Mazda 323 that used the 
expansion of a wax capsule to operate the hot/cold air flap. This has the 
distinct advantage of not needing a vacuum connection. I cut an 
appropriately shaped hole in the base of the air cleaner to fit the weber, 
but the air cleaner wasn't wide enough to clear the choke, fuel bowl, etc! 
Not to be thwarted I bought one of those adapters that allow you to use an 
air cleaner with a round connection on the weber progressive. "But what 
about that hole you'd cut in the air cleaner?" I hear you ask. There's 
nothing you can't patch up with a piece of sheet aluminium! After a couple 
of weekends putting it all together (what were those VW engineers thinking 
of when they put the upper bolts that hold the pipes to bring the hot air 
from the head to the engine bay on the outside rather than the engine bay 
side?) I'm back on the road. What a difference a bit of hot air makes! So 
much smoother running. However, I haven't had a chance to test it on a cold 
morning, yet...

What's next? The good old chrome air cleaner that comes with the weber 
suffers from the worst of both worlds. When the engine is cold it sucks in 
cold air and when it's hot it sucks in hot air. I've solved half the 
problem, but need to join a pipe to the air cleaner to bring cold(ish) air 
in from over the battery.



Cheers,

Martin Strandgard
