Date: Sat, 23 Feb 2008 01:49:04 -0500
From: "Jeff Lincoln" <pattysbus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Bus Stories

I posted this to the Vanagon list earlier - I didn't see where it broke any
rules of this list so I thought I'd post it here too. Thanks :)


*Ok, gang this idea has been rolling around in my head for a while and with
some encouragement I guess it's time I saw where this can go.

Inspired by our very own Uncle Joel, who saved me from certain "death by
boredom", while I was covering the graveyard shift with his stories I'd like
to compile a book of bus stories.

So I am coming to you all to ask for submissions to the cause. I'll take
anything and any number of stories from anyone. I only request that they are
things that you actually experienced. That awesome summer you spent living
in your bus at the beach, aquiring your first bus, the bus you found in some
tucked away place and brough back to life, a great camping story, a
heartbreaking breakdown, a victorious restoration,  etc. etc. etc. You know
the stuff that's told around campfires. If you have more than one amazing
story all the better.

Please provide your Name, the Year, Make, Model of the bus, and if the bus
has/had a name give that too. It would be nice to have a city and state
where you currently reside as well - however I'm not going to push for too
much information.

To keep things simple for myself I have set a new e-mail **
vwbusstories(-at-)gmail.com* <vwbusstories(-at-)gmail.com>* to submit your stories.
Feel free to send pictures as well.

I can't say where this is going or if it makes it further than this e-mail
how long it will take to complete. I just know that I personally enjoy
reading these kinds of things and would certainly like an entire book of
people's bus adventures. I may find out I'm in way over my head but that's
ok.

Please feel free to share this idea with other lists or groups you might
feel are interested.  *
*So there you have it the idea thrives or dies based on the response I get.
*

-- 
Thanks,

Jeff
'78 "Melissa"
