Date: Thu, 23 Mar 2006 15:23:17 -0800 (PST)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: missing heat pieces, and questions

Hey folks.  I'm in the process of fixing my leaky heat system, and that
included replacing the PO tiny heat exchangers with a standard
full-sized set.  First, I don't have the little non-return flap things
(http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell/.Pictures/Heating/10-FanShroudFlaps.jpg).
 I can't find the part referenced on bus-boys.  Any one have a pn or,
maybe a pair they'd part with for a reasonable price?  Could they be
easily reproduced or are they more precision-fitting than they look?
Second, there is a bolt-hole on the RH exchanger that lines up with a
bracket that hangs down from around the alternator.  Anyone know the
size of the bolt that needs to go there?  I don't have one, and I'd
rather have that bracket help hold up the exhaust than not.

Otherwise, the process is moving along, albeit slowly.  I discovered
that the long heat-flow pipe running from beam to beam was pretty
rusted, so I pulled it out and replaced it with an insulated flexy-vent
pipe.  I located a flat spot under the floor to the right of the
shift-linkage to place a bilge-blower.  I routed the switch to the old
dome-light control (as the dome light had been removed from that
circuit long ago), so no new holes were needed for that.  I was
thinking of looking around for a fan icon thing to replace the dome
light icon on the switch.  Then it would look like it was supposed to
be there.  Btw, I was wondering if anyone had any thoughts about
changing the route of the B+.  As it is, that switch is always powered,
so the fan can be turned on without a key.  Anyone see a problem with
that other than I could run down my battery because I forgot the fan
was on?
I used some leftover vibration deadener on the feet of the bilge-blower
and there is no floor vibe when the fan is on.  It is amazing how much
more air passes through than before, and thenoise of the fan through
the vents is pretty minor compared to what I expected.
All I need are the referenced missing bits, install the other heat
exchanger, hook up the control flaps, and I'm done.  Then, on to sound
deadening the cab... or maybe even drive it for a while :0

Thanks in advance,
Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy)
