Date: Fri, 4 Jan 2002 13:08:12 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Perry Paolantonio <perryp(-at-)shore.net>
Subject: '71 westy - Must sell

well, the time has *really* come. i mean it this time. I've got to 
sell my westy ASAP.

here's a little info about it: bought it in Arizona in '99 and 
brought it to Boston, MA. no winter driving [well, 3 times since '99, 
all short trips on dry roads]. no rot, though there's a little rust 
under the windshield. thoroughly water- and soundproofed on the 
inside, insulation added throughout. nice custom cut mahogany 
interior panels. nicely upholstered interior, and new carpet 
throughout. poptop is from a 74-79 bus, and there's no cot up top. 
however, there's room to build a fold out bed like in the later 
models. has the sink/icebox combo, but it's not hooked up at the 
moment - needs some faucet and drain parts. comes with a childs cot, 
but is mising the jump seat, and the shelf that hangs from the 
ceiling above the engine compartment. has a nice CD player installed 
and good JBL speakers.

before driving it home from AZ i put new tires and new front brake 
rotors and pads in. these have about 10,000 miles on them.

this bus is very reliable, engine has been well maintained and there 
are no major problems with it that i know of. it was most recently 
inspected in August, 2001, but could probably use a tune up. Comes 
with two boxes full of goodies like new window rubber, assorted 
engine bits and pieces, some tools, etc. [no, i dont' want to sell 
these separately] Because it came from Arizona, the body is in 
fantastic shape - it just needs a paint job to look really good.

at this point, i just want to get back what i paid for it and put 
into it: at least $4500. I'll sell it to the highest bidder above 
$4500 in the next week or two. buses in this kind of condition just 
don't show up in new england that frequently. at Transporterfest last 
fall, the most common remark i heard was "I can't believe it's all 
metal!"

the bus is located near Logan Airport in South Boston. it's easy to 
get to from all the major highways coming into the city, and i work 
at home so i'm here pretty much all the time.

lots more info and pix at: http://www.nofrillsdvd.com/perry/bus.html

email me if you have any questions.

-perry
