Cc: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Fri, 26 Oct 2007 19:40:07 -0400
To: Janyce Bartlett <janycebartlett(-at-)msn.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: 1980 Vanagon air cooled :Dying engine

Hi Janyce,

Sounds like that engine has serious issues. I would recommend trying  
to find a replacement engine rather than spending the $$$ to rebuild  
that one. Fixing the oil leaks means splitting the case and if you're  
doing that then you're committing to a LOT of time and $$$ before  
it's done.

Bug engine parts are a LOT less $$$ than what is required for a type4  
engine. The good news is that the type4 makes better torque and tends  
to last longer. BusDepot.com sells an AVP longblock  for about the  
same $$$ as the parts you would have to buy to do the rebuild, and  
theirs comes with a warranty. You should be able to do the re-and-re  
yourself with a pair of ramps and a dolly jack; plus some basic hand  
tools.

There are other options... if you can find a donor bus with a decent  
engine you could do that swap and part out the donorbus to recoup  
your costs. This is what I have tended to do over the past few years;  
parts buses just have a way of finding me somehow, and I cram my  
garage with bits until you can barely move in there.

Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com



On 25-Oct-07, at 5:14 PM, Janyce Bartlett wrote:

>
My van's engine has reached the end of the road.  In July, I lost the  
rear axle and got hooked up with a mechanic in San Francisco through  
this board, who fixed the job with used parts for 250.  I asked him  
if he would work on the engine to eliminate the oil leaks that had  
progressively gotten worse since I bought it in 2004.  His analysis  
of the situation was that the engine was done and I should get rid of  
the air-cooled and get a water cooled if I wanted to still have a  
Vanagon. He said the engine had gotten too hot from overworking it  
and not taking care of it (I was very poor in San Diego and coult not  
tend to things).  When he gave the engine gas, it was making a real  
load noise which he said was from air leaking from the exhaust into  
the engine and that it was burning oil. I said I did not intend to  
get rid of the van and wanted to fix it.  His estimate on  the  
installation of a rebiult engine was $4,000.  He said to just drive  
my van until it wouldn't go anymore,  which is where I am at now.  I   
had just changed the oil and adding some fuel injector cleaner but  
did not have a full tank of gas.  The van is backfiring and is very  
loud like there is no muffler at all.  And it puts at a lot of smoke. 
(which it has been doing for a while especially went I first start  
running it or when it has to do any upgrade which it can barely do. )  
It has absolutely no power at all.  It barely moves only in first  
gear and jerks a lot.  I guess I will not know if it has failed seals  
and gaskets or a cracked head until I take it apart.

This is my situation. I would like to rebuild this engine myself with  
the a professional doing the cylinder work.  The van is presently is  
an unrestricted street parking spot in Sausalito, CA. I have
AAA basic which will tow it within five miles without charge.  I  
would like to locate a vacant work space for a month, preferably in  
Sausalito, Marin City, or Mill Valley,and rent the heavy equipment I  
need to remove and mount the engine.  My auto repair skills are at a  
minimum but I have a technical education to help me learn.  I have  
wanted to break down and rebuild a engine for a some time. The time  
is right. my job is done oct 31 and I have the cash to get me  
through.  I noticed someone had done a rebuild in August on T2, so  
hopefully with some internet guidance I can get it done.

First, Is there anyone out there in the Marin County area that would  
know of a place I could use for a month.  Also where could I come by  
engine removal and mounting equipment.  I am going to make a  
checklist of all the supplies and parts I need.  Does anyone know of  
a good resource that walks you through a rebuild project for the  
novice.  I do read the Bentley , but it assumes the user is a trained  
mechanic. I also have the VW idiot's guide. The bottom line is I want  
to do this to learn and finally understand how it all works.
