Date: Tue, 13 Jul 2004 00:40:29 -0400
From: Dave Rogge II <tgtsfkncld(-at-)att.net>
To: type 2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Weird weird electrical problems.  I'm lost.

Hey... this bus might be driving me nuts.  The immediate problem is that 
when I turn the key on, i get no dash lights.  When the car is running, 
the generator light is on all the time, and when the turn signals or 
flashers are on, the gen light and fuel guage flash.

It's a 1970 westy. 
So here's the story:  Bus died at a light today, and I had a bad 
connection at the choke.  Fixed the connection, but broke the connection 
at the electronic cut-off., drove it around like that for a while (yes, 
it didn't idle, but i drove it like that, because i was buying donuts 
for work.  You have to have priorities...).  Anyway, i got it home and 
figured out that i broke the connection at the cut off.  So that was 
fixed, and the idle speed was adjusted properly.  I took it out for a 
drive, and the generator light came on, and actually got brighter at 
high rpms.  On the way home I noticed that the gen light and fuel guage 
were pulsing with the turn signals.  Uppon further exploration, I found 
that the flashers did the same thing, only brighter.  The flashers did 
actually work, but the turn signals did not.  I found a blown fuse, and 
replaced it.  No difference.  I took the instrument cluster out, and 
checked all the connections, everything is good there.

I also noticed that any time the car is running, the steering column has 
12 volts.  I'm talking about the metal outer part of the steering 
column.  I don't know if this is how the horn button gets power, but my 
'77 doesn't have voltage there. 

The bus has been taking a little longer to start in the past few days as 
well.  I thought this was because of the loose connection at the choke, 
but it is still doing it. 

I just don't even know where to go from here, really.  Other than 
tearing the dash out and re-wiring everything (which probably should be 
done anyway, but not before i rebuild my transmission so i can drive in 
fourth gear).

Thanks,

- dave -

-- 
- dave -
tgtsfkncld(-at-)att.net
http://tgtsfkncld.home.att.net
Valencia, CA and Western New York
'70 westy 1600  Ludo
'77 westy 2.0FI  the yellow submarine

"...and if the band you're in starts playing different tunes,
    I'll see you on the dark side of the moon."
