Date: Wed, 25 Jul 2012 10:36:35 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Stripping a bus - rambles from a dusty guy

Over the years I've been the paintjob helper. I've done some small parts 
but I was always reliant on someone else's expertise for the tough 
parts. This paint job I want to be "right" and I want to the body man 
AND the paint man AND have the paint turn out right so I'm doing some 
experimentation.

As I've mentioned in other messages I am working on restoration steps 
E,F,G and thinking ahead to J,K, & L. Part of this thinking ahead is 
thinking about the paint job and how best and most efficiently get that 
done - i.e. get it done with the minimum sweat. Any of us can attack the 
paint job with a 2" square piece of sandpaper and alot of determination. 
Been there, done that. Part of my painter's gopher training as a kid 
working with Dad. As a middle aged guy I don't have that kind of time to 
give this project, nor do I have the patience to hand sand/strip a car. 
-insert a Tim Allen laugh here-

So I've been borrowing tools and test driving them. I have a "Morgan 
Factory reconditioned" 60 gallon compressor aka Campbell-Hausfield aka 
Kobalt 3.7-HP 60-Gallon 155 PSI Electric Air Compressor aka every store 
brand compressor including the Tractor Supply house brand. Mine came 
from Northern Tool. Works good, trouble free so far. Parts available in 
case I need to fix anything.

I borrowed a 6" dual action air disc sander yesterday similar to 
examples from everywhere:

Northern Industrial Dual Action Air Disc Sander --- 6in. Dia, 4 CFM, 90 
PSI, 7000 RPM <http://www.northerntool.com/shop/tools/product_14325_14325>

Harbor Freight:6" Dual Action Air Sander Central Pneumatic - Item#68152

Just two examples of the tool I'm talking about. The amount of sanding 
it can do is incredible. The brand of the tool I was using is unclear. 
Ingersoll-Rand sells a visual duplicate of the tool I was using but it 
may be that the tool I was using was an import knockoff. Dunno.

My 60 gal air compressor can stay ahead of it (motor turns off after 
recharging the air tank), auto body supply store abrasives were about 35 
cents per disc I think (bought 15 discs of different grits, 5 of the 15 
were rectangular for my jitterbug sander too - all for $5), and in ~30 
mins I was past the third paint job down to the original brown paint.

That's through my paint job and the previous owner's paint job.

That session was all using the original disc. I think a person could 
strip a whole Westfalia using that tool in a day or two depending on how 
steady they worked and how much they had to wait on their air compressor.

WEAR a dust mask! Dust like this can give a person a sore throat, cough, 
runny nose - all sort of like a cold - until the body gets the junk out.

Best of all unlike my 2" air grinder and my big 6" electric disc sander 
- there were no gouges in the paint that went through most or all of the 
layers to the metal. Yeah, I tried those too. Tried something like these:


  Northern Industrial Air Mini Angle Die Grinder --- 1/4in. Inlet, 4
  CFM, 20,000 RPM

7" Variable Speed Polisher/Sander Drill Master - Item#92623 (Harbor Freight)

Both types of tools are excellent for certain things but they made a 
mess of the paint striping job I tried them on. Mostly because of the 
gouges that were so easy to create. The little 2" air sander is the 
go-to-tool for stripping the paint/junk/crud off of individual parts. 
The big electric sander is great for wood working.

Why not chemical strippers? Am afraid that I won't get the stripper off 
of the paint and have troubles later after the top coat is sprayed. I've 
used chemical strippers and they were alot of work too. I really don't 
want to soften the factory primer and top coat, just the layers added 
after the factory. So I'm sanding down to the factory paint as a 
foundation for my next paint job.

Why not sandblast it? I'd like that too but this is a shiny driver 
vehicle, not a show car. Cheaper to sand it down than sandblast it. The 
local guy wants $750+ for that job. I'd rather buy a decent home 
sandblaster for $150 for the details I need to sandblast, buy sanding 
discs and pocket the difference.

I will need to sandblast a few details and rusty spots like the exterior 
body seams, the window openings and the door seal channels. All have 
rust in them to varying degrees - all minor but something that needs to 
be removed and "killed" or risk that it will continue and ruin the steel 
or the next paint job. The idea is not antique car show perfection but 
effective preservation of the Westy so we can drive and enjoy it without 
expecting the rust to set in again a couple of years down the road and 
ruin the investment we've made in the vehicle.

The 6" air sander first mentioned above was impressive (or depressive 
depending on how you think about it) how many high and low spots were 
revealed by that sanding session. Nothing terrible but it revealed 
evidence of how poorly I prepped that vehicle for paint last time years 
ago - and also probably how poorly the previous owner prepped the 
vehicle too for his paint job. Neither of us did a very good job of 
blocking the body in primer. Scuff and shoot is a better description of 
what I did b/c the body was straight and solid for the most part.

It also revealed some pinhole rust on the outside of the seam where the 
battery tray and the rear quarter panel all comes together. More pinhole 
rust where the frame rails join the rear panel on both sides of the 
engine hatch, a bubble under the front step on the passenger side, and 
the paint is peeling (!) in a few places under the seals and under the 
sliding door covers below the third side window - both sides.

I've used an air powered straight line sander and it was great but not 
nearly this fast. My jitterbug sander isn't nearly as fast either. Note 
all of these are the economy import air tools that are pretty good for 
home use but would never last with everyday commercial use. You know, 
the $30 tool vs the $150+ pro-grade stuff.

I tried my electric PORTER-CABLE 5" Random Orbit Sander and I was making 
good progress with that one too but the foam pad that stays attached to 
the sander that allows for velcro backed pads to hang on failed. The 
foam came apart. The tool is 10+ years old so I don't know if it was age 
that wiped out the foam backer or if it was heat from the sanding disc. 
If you have a tool like that, it'll do the job but just not as fast as 
the 6" air tool.

I tried -years ago- a DEWALT 1/4" Palm-Grip Sander Kit - back before 
DeWalt was DeWalt and it was still called Black&Decker Professional and 
that sander is great for soft surfaces like wood and final sandings - 
but not bodywork - . For stripping the paint off of a car, it is 
slow.... Good sander, still have it. Still use it.

Again it looks like the abrasives purchased from the local auto body 
supplier outlasts the stuff from the hardware store.

I have a solution now so I'll probably stop the bodywork until I can get 
the suspension back on and the brakes fixed up and working. I have a 
steep driveway and have a wench setup to drag the bus back in but need 
brakes to moderate the speed going out of the garage.

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L
'65 VW Beetle 2.0L basketcase mutt
'97 VW Cabrio Highline
'99 CR-V AWD EX 5MT (235K and counting)
Brenderup 1205S - tincan pickup truck substitution, we love it
