Date: Wed, 25 Jul 2012 10:29:27 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <mike.soultanian(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: UPDATE - was: raising a bus and axle length

So, after a lot of sitting and staring, and more sitting and staring, I 
decided that I would pull the axles out of the inner CV race a little 
bit to see if that would increase the needed amount of play.  So I 
climbed under the bus, removed the CVs, and pulled the axle out out of 
the inner CV race about 1/4 inch and then and reassembled them (without 
grease or the boots).  When I bolted them onto the bus, there was tons 
of play?!  That was odd - I went from none to a lot.  So I pulled them 
off and readjusted them so that the ends of the axles were flush with 
the ends of the inner CV race (their initial configuration) and bolted 
them up again - they had play?!?!  So, I sat and stared some more... and 
then I thought, ok, let's put the boots on and see what happens.  Well, 
it turns out that because the CVs are at a pretty extreme angle, the 
balls in the CV joints are contacting the metal part from the rubber 
boot seal and not allowing the races to have their normal travel.  Upon 
careful inspection, I could see dimples in the metal where the balls had 
pressed the metal out.

So, it turned out that the problem is the boots and not the joints.  I 
think what I'll do for that is just pull the boots off and then gently 
tap out the areas where the balls are contacting to give the balls some 
room to breathe.

Now, that only solved one part of the problem - I was still worried 
about the other end of the travel.  I needed to measure with the 
suspension compressed to the opposite extreme to make sure that the 
races weren't binding due to the axles pushing them out beyond their 
limits, so I got a bunch of people to sit in the bus - I had 3 on the 
roof edge totally about 450lb, two people over the engine at about 
300lb, and another three people in the back seat totaling about 500lb. 
I figured I would load up the bus with waaaaaay more weight then it 
would probably ever see and see if I had sufficient play at the 
compressed extreme.  Upon loading the bus, I was still able to move the 
CV about a 1/4 inch so all was good.  Now we just need to purchase 
extended axles that will allow the use of the circlip and we'll be good 
to go.  Thanks for everyone's ideas and suggestions!!

Mike
