To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: cress(-at-)msys.net
From: "Jeff Tickner" <JeffT(-at-)softlanding.com>
Date: Wed, 1 May 2002 09:00:56 -0400
Subject: Re: Camper Queries: Water faucet


>The other hose (black) is from the
>water pump.  It just pushes on the faucet nipple.  It seems a little too
>large to connect snugly to the faucet.  The old faucet seemed to have some
bright
>red dried "goo" on it.  Any idea what this is?  Some kind of low-pressure
>plumbing sealant?

I replaced my faucet a couple years back, back when the replacements were
twice the $$ they are now. I had the same problem, which I solved by
unscrewing the nipple from the old faucet and using it on the new faucet,
now the old hose fit perfectly :-)

I have since replaced my dead water pump with an RV style on-demand pump
(pump controlled by integrated pressure switch) and pressure tank which is
connected to the city water faucet nipple and I blocked off the old nipple
we are speaking of here. It's kind of nice to have total control of the
flow rate, no more turning on the switch and having the stream of water get
deflected by a spoon in the sink all over the place. If your pump is not
responding to the switch, double check your pumps wire connections, it's
kind of a weird connector, with screws holding the bare wires. Also check
the ground which is attached to the body at the waste water vent area on
your 79.

see this http://www.tickners.com/vwstuff/P1big.gif

If you have a deluxe camper you may find that the faucet interferes with
the sink/stove cover closing. I removed the white plastic base from under
the faucet section to lower it, and it still hits enough that the faucet
spout leaks at the base where it pivots no matter what I apply to it. Ron
offered to replace the faucet, but warned me that the replacement would be
the same height and he is buying them from the original mfr so he had no
other option. I've considered swapping spouts with old and new faucet, but
the new faucet spout is held in by a metal ring that looks peened in. The
old faucet has a rubber retaining ring that looks very cracked. Anybody
take one of these apart?

