Date: Wed, 01 May 2002 16:59:06 -0400
From: Jen NY <heckyeah(-at-)optonline.net>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: magnesium_(-at-)yahoo.com
Subject: Freaky Electrical Problem on '68 Bus

Hi all,

My 68 Bus has been having the worst electrical problems. Right now after
driving for a few minutes I will suddenly lose all power to the motor,
lights, radio - everything! It became the most noticeable in the past few
weeks when I would turn on the directional and the indicator lights would
not come on and sometimes I would also get the dim generator light but this
would only last for less than a minute then all would be fine again. More
recently I would get this same problem but now I would have to shock(?) the
power back on again by turning the headlights on which simultaniously
results in a quick loss of power to the engine (would almost stall it out)
but then this (headlight flashing action) gives me my power back again.

Right now when I go to start the car it will usually start but then it will
suddenly lose power and stall as if the battery is dead (very very dim dash
lights). When this happens I can eventually get it started by just playing
with the headlight and or ignition switch a few times when it will just
suddenly come back to life as if there was no problem. If this happens while
I'm driving I can get the power back by using my light switch shocking
method. When I get the this problem while I'm still in the driveway I jump
out and start wiggling all the battery connections and starter wiring
connections (which all seem very solid and clean) but this never fixes the
problem like fidling with the light or ignition switch does which leads me
to believe their is a wiring problem somewhere else. I have even removed,
cleaned and replaced the large red wires connections going to the light
switch and fuse box and still no change in this problem.
 Over the last year I have replaced the battery, starter (bad solenoid), the
positive battery cable connector, and since this problem has been showing up
I recently upgraded to a new Bosch (internal regulator) alternator (which
did not fix the problem or change it in any other way).

Please help I am completely losing my mind over this.

Brett

