Date: Thu, 25 Nov 2004 10:51:41 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Mallory pics

On Thu, 25 Nov 2004 08:21:07 -0600 (CST) "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com> wrote:

> This one appears to be mech advance only

Correct

> Looks like it has the optical pickup as well.

Yes

> Was it worth $289 in terms of power....can you "see" the difference when 
> you timed it over a bosch(old or new, I don't care)?
> Better gas mileage?
> Does it have the grey springs like John talked about?

OK, at this point I have to bow out. You're questioning someone who's only
type4 engines have been the worn out hulks already installed in the buses
he's acquired. And...

I've only had 180 miles of driving experience on this motor. No front tin
or fan cover the first time I had it and I put a piece of road debris
through the oil cooler. By the time the idiot light came on the motor was
toast. 

After having it rebuilt I had already started taking the '74 apart for a
"proper" paint and body restore so the motor sat in a crate until I put it
in the Riviera. 

It is *IN* the Rivi but I haven't gotten it all wired up and fired up yet.
This time around it gets oil temp, oil pressure, and CHT gauges set up
before I turn the key for the first time.

I have the CHT sender installed. I need to order an extender so I can add
the pressure sender and I need to figure out where to drill/tap the taco
plate for the temp sender.

I'm procrastinating. Having it blow the first time has made me a bit wary
this time around. If I had another bus person here locally to sit over my
shoulder and double check my work I'd probably get it done. But I don't so
it's dragging out.

> Why did you spring for it rather than some other dist?

I wanted pointless ignition without it being an "afterthought" added to a
regular distributor (Pertronix etc.).. This is what Jake suggested and John
Connoly agreed. I have new dual Weber 40's installed. I never even looked
but they may not be set up out of the box to use an SVDA anyway.

I still have to find someone to drill both intake manifolds later so I can
get vaccuum for my brake booster. I have nowhere to hook it up right now so
my brakes will be leg power only for a while.

Gerald
