Date: Fri, 26 Nov 2004 07:56:09 -0800
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Friday Morning Cruise Report

Woke up at 3am, as I am wont to do occasionally, and decided it was a
good morning to go take pictures at the beach.

Quick shower, hop in the Great White Bus, and head south. After a stop
for coffee I was on the 5 fwy. At 4:30am there's nobody there,
especially since most folks have today off. Cruising at 65, drinking
the crappy Nescafe that my local Chevron just switched to (never
stopping there again.. ick), and smoking Camels.

The satellite shots of Orange County on the net showed scattered
clouds, great for sunrise photography. But as I got closer to the
beach, the scattered clouds became one big overcast blah. Since I have
a specific shot in mind that doesn't include overcast skies, I decided
to take an early morning cruise up PCH from the 55 in Newport Beach to
where PCH hits the 5 near San Onofre.

Wonderful cruise through Laguna with hardly anybody on the road.
Laguna is usually full of bumper-to-bumper traffic, so this was a real
treat. Except for the beemers. And SUVs. Speed limit is 35 and these
people are blasting past me at 50 shaking their fists and showing me
I'm number one. Irritating.

I enjoyed my cruise regardless, particularly Crystal Cove, and was
half tempted to continue past the 5 and head for Mexico. Haven't been
to TJ in years and thought it would be fun. But my wallet reminded me
it was empty, along with my bank account, so I got on the 5 North to
head for home.

As I passed into Irvine the bus lost all power. I couldn't get over
50. Oh, crap. I cracked a head or sunk a valve or something. Right?
Wrong. I was out of gas!!!

My gauge always reports 1/8 of a tank short of full when it's filled
up. So when the needle moved into the red, I figured I still had over
a quarter of a tank. Nope. Halfway through the red is when I lost
power. I pulled off the freeway at Aliso and found a Shell station
that required 45 left turns and 3 stoplights to get into. But I made
it in, fed the Great White Bus $20 worth of go-juice, and got back on
the freeway. Ahh... Effortless 65 again. So nice.

Now I'm home, and the wife and kids are STILL asleep. Shoot, I'm ready
for lunch!

-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
