Date: Thu, 09 Aug 2001 11:33:36 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] URGENT SOS


>
>I was discouraged from doing this by my local VWFLAPS.  Apparently there 
>may be a quality difference between the autozone "rebuilt"
>CVs and the Lobro "new" CVs.  I don't know if this is true, but for me the 
>autozone part had to be ordered and the VWFLAPS had the CV
>on the shelf, which sealed the decision.

I merely suggested replacing the entire axle assembly with one from Auto 
Zone as they are cheap and available. That way he isn't on the side of the 
road for days waiting for a UPS truck or NAPA to get an order in for him. 
Anything that gets him moving would be good enough. Surely the cheapest 
axle would get him home.

As for the VW FLAPS - some are good and some are not. I was running my old 
axles with NO BOOTS for a couple of years. I knew they were worn and I 
wanted to see how long they would last. They never failed. I decided I 
didn't have the money for new axles but at least wanted to make them 
watertight for winter. I paid a visit to a VW FLAPS in Chattanooga (90 
miles away and near our families). The replacement boots were good looking 
but failed in under a month - - no warranty that he would stand behind.

All I am saying here is just because the parts come from a VW FLAPS, there 
is no automatic guarantee that you are getting good quality parts. That 
said - I AM SURE - that your VW FLAPS has to be better than this one. I 
won't ever do business with that fellow again...

I bought two of Auto Zone's axles expecting little from them, I'll report 
on them later once I have some mileage on them. They fit my budget at that 
moment and come with alifetime warranty. I know what little that really 
means but sometimes the manager will actually stand behind what the 
customer THINKS that means. I used to work for Advance Auto so I certainly 
recognize that the quality of the basic supermarket FLAPS parts is rather 
poor on many things. But that is another thread...

I don't even shop at Auto Zone or Advance unless the item I need comes in a 
bottle. At the time the NAPA replacements were quite pricey and my budget 
was shot. NAPA is really the only other better quality parts store locally. 
(Small Town)


Chris in Tennessee
'78 Westy (Corvair engine waiting for transplant)
'65 Beetle
'99 CR-V stationwagon
'81 CB 900 Custom

