Date: Fri, 10 Aug 2001 08:30:51 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] URGENT SOS

At 08:44 PM 8/9/01 -0400, you wrote:
>So true.  I can think of one shop in the San Fernando Valley that I
>wouldn't set foot in.  Lotsa shiny chrome Taiwan tin that doesn't come
>close to fitting.  Fool me once...

I think his brother runs the shop there in Chattanooga. <grin>

Had a friend that used to work for him. The view from the inside out wasn't 
any better.

<snip>

Your report will be interesting. I have little use for "lifetime
warranties" as the real cost in CV replacement is the labor. When I hear
of folks who are happy because they are on their fourth starter on a
"lifetime warranty" deal I wonder if they are counting the time and hassle
of removing and replacing the starter, being stranded, etc. in their cost
savings over a new Bosch part.

<unsnip>

That was the lesson I learned from working for Advance Auto. Folks changing 
out starters, water pumps, and alternators annually - obviously pointed to 
crummy reman parts. Some of these same parts were dead right out of the 
box. I started testing these items before giving them across the counter to 
the customer after I had a series of 'new' items come back dead with 'hot' 
customers.

Many went right into the return basket.

I really began seeing their quality for what it was. We had one 
enterprising customer come in for a set of rotors for his old, old Mazda 
p/u. He brought with him a micrometer and measured the new ones which we 
discovered to be the minimum thickness allowed by the service manual for 
his truck - brand new right out of the box. If you are going to by rotors 
for any car - DO NOT buy import (Chinese) replacements. They also have a 
bad habit of warping very quickly under normal usage. Maybe not every time 
for everyone but we got alot of complaints. I also had a set on my own 
Honda Accord warp before I worked there.

It was a great job, a little extra money from a 2nd part time job. VERY 
educational - taught me alot about the parts industry. I taught them some 
things about cars as most of my co-workers literally did not know the 
difference between a spark plug and an oxygen sensor when they first got there.

When I got ready to leave they begged me to stay but I told them I was 
worth more than $7 an hours - after all they called me all evening at home 
some nights because they couldn't answer customers' questions. That even 
kept on after I left for a couple of weeks after I left until I set them 
right. I was seeking $9 or $10 but apparently they couldn't afford me. 
Their ASE certified PARTS EXPERT isn't making any more I hear...

I'd warn anyone to keep that in mind when they expect the parts guy at one 
of these supermarket type stores to explain much. Not every store is the 
same but this store was staffed by a bunch of non-gearheads. This franchise 
group tried their best to hire the cheapest help they could find.

Warranties are useless if you have to pay labor for each replacement. They 
are also useless if you own the shop that has to supply the no charge labor 
for continuous replacement for crummy parts.

In my own case though I do my own work and expect a couple years out of 
these axles. I expect the boots to go bad first.

FALSE ECONOMY.

I'll keep the list advised and maybe - MAYBE - we'll all be surprised and 
they will outlast my expectations (or they will fail in 50 miles --- he 
he).....

I love to here about FLAPS experiences from both sides of the counter so if 
anyone wants to trade war stories, p-mail me. I doubt everyone else wants 
to read it all...




Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ#5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (Corvair drivetrain waiting transplant)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle

FOR SALE: 	'72 Hodaka Wombat (make offer)
		Early model Corvair engine - needs bell housing, otherwise complete (make 
offer)

