From: "Russell Neithammer" <rneithammer(-at-)mlea.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 10 Aug 2001 12:31:53 -0400
Subject: [T2] Engine temperatures

Just got back from a 1000 mile vacation trip in my 1971 Westy (stock 1600
DP, doghouse, no thermostat, flaps open, about 50K on the current rebuild).
You may recall my previous posts regarding engine temperatures and my
experience with the Berg dipstick temperature switch (it seemed to light up
any time my speed was in excess of about 55 to 60 MPH.  I had checked it's
calibration using the boiling water method suggested by Berg in the
instruction leaflet and found it to be OK, meaning it should start to come
on at 225 to 227 deg. F).  So, before my trip, I installed VDO gauges for
oil temperature (with sump plate sender), oil pressure and cylinder head
temperature.

I checked the oil temperature gauge calibration before I installed it by
hooking it up (powered by a 12V battery) and dunking the sender in boiling
water.  When the sender was completely immersed in boiling water, the gauge
read about 220 deg. F.  When I immersed only the sensing slug of the sender
(i.e., the part normally immersed in oil with the sender installed in the
sump plate) the gauge read about 212 deg. F.

I live in the Philly, PA area so elevation above sea level is not an issue.

My readings at 60 to 65 MPH and 80 to 95 deg. F ambient temperature after an
hour or so of driving were as follows:

OT gauge			180 to 200 deg. F
OP gauge			20 to 25 psi
CHT gauge			275 to 300 deg. F
Berg sender			"Steady ON"

This was with the Westy fully loaded with 10 days worth of camping stuff and
3 people, and a good portion of the trip was chugging up steep mountain
roads in West Virginia.  After a while I removed the Berg sender and put the
regular dipstick back in because I got tired of looking at the light being
on. The bus ran great with no problems, and I did not even have to add any
oil.

I can think of the following reasons to explain the disagreement between the
OT gauge and the Berg sender:

1.	The oil temperature at the dipstick location is considerably higher than
it is at the sump plate.  Not likely, but concievable (a real stretch) if
there is in fact significant heat dissipated by the bottom of the
engine/sump plate.

2.	The Berg sender is being influenced by heat conducted into it by the
dipstick tube into which it is installed.  That I can believe, based on what
I found when I was checking the VDO gauge and VDO sender.

Any other ideas?

Are my readings indicative of a healthy engine?

