From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 25 Mar 2002 09:02:57 -0500
Subject: Carb problems solved, dealership rantings.

Replaced the Brosol 30/31 that was routinely drenching my motor with gas
yesterday. Flipped it upside down for giggles, barely a drop left in it.
A nice crack through the lower body left/right halves created this,
visible slightly from the back of carb.

The 1970 Pict 30-3 I replaced it with was jetted to stock specs for a
1600SP from 1970. 112.5 125 air 65 pilot. Sanded down exhaust pipe to
get silver, and slapped her on. Barely had to tune for idle, very close
off the bench. Bus ran clean, strong, no hesitation, leaks, good pickup,
better engine temps, better heat (slightly) and a nice grey exhaust
pipe...Moral of story, KIGS....Keep it German Stupid... I had poor luck
with two brosols, both new to near new, both leaking and running rich
beyond what the jetting should indicate. Now for the accel bowden tube I
found and real preheat...


RANT:
Bought a 1999 Weekender for the lady of the house. Dealership was VW of
Oneonta NY. I had concerns about brakes, and was told not to worry as
the VW certifaction process will force them to clear up all
issues....BULLSHIT.

We got a car with no radio code, the wrong year radio, no brake light
(three hour drive home, I might add) no license plate light, old
oil...At least I got a new spare.

Bring car to VW of Lehigh Valley PA, 1 mile from house (no aircooled
stash :( ), and rear brakes are SO rusty, they replace them sheerly out
of common sense, and PA inspection. Oil changed, VW certification REDONE
to be certain we're cool. Would have bought from them, but finding a
used weekender 1999up was killer hard on the east coast....

Call dealer, talk to owner, Steve Adams, he accuses my local dealer of
switching parts...Interesting, since Evs are hard to even find, let
alone rusted up parts for one, refuses to pay me the 445.00 it took in
the shop. Told me (after he admitted he wasn't a mechanic at all) that
he drove it and it was fine.
I explained that since the obviously small things were overlooked, how
can I assume the car was mechanically cared for by the dealer? Might as
well talk to a ffin' wall.

 God I love my splitty....
SO, if anyone knows who I can call to get someone from VWoA to bitchslap
this looser, let me know, as their Customer Disservice dept was useless.

Alll this talk lately of VWoA sucking big time is now evident to me.

Al in PA




