Date: Mon, 25 Mar 2002 15:13:45 -0700
From: "Curt Conklin" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Progress, well, a little

Volks,

It was supposed to rain this past weekend, but Saturday wound up being
a passable day.  So, a friend and I pushed MSB (My Sweet Bus) out the
garage and got the accelerator cable hooked up to the progressive and
jump started my new 1835cc Bergmann long block.  A few minutes at 2500
rpm for a break in and then we test drove her around the neighborhood. 
I love the power.  Remember, the Wasatch Range, where the Oly's played
out, start right at the end of my block, from there it is straight up,
so we are hilly.  

My son, now in Germany, rebuilt the brakes with new shoes and cylinders
last Nov., but the weather got cold before we could properly bleed them,
or so we thought.  They were squishy in the test ride, gabbed at the
bottom of the play.  We bled them and noticed the squish still there. 
Then we noticed that the squish started with just a rock of the tranny. 
Hmmnn.  Fishy, so we took off the left front for a looky-see.  We
checked it out against the flick from the Bentley  Manual and lo, we
noticed Bry had put the springs on from the outside, like you do a Bug's
brakes.  The Bentley flick has them on the inside, hooking out.  Ugh.

First one went okay.  But, one of the passenger front the springs
broke.  I should be able to get them from the local FLAPS?  I noticed
that those danged lock washers are kind of tinny.  They have a flange
tha  bends in and out over the two spindle/bearing/drum nuts.  

The passenger back wheel was also a bear.  Broke my son's Craftsman
breaker bar and had to go get another one.   By then the rain and wind
was settling in.

Unfortunately, we noticed the emergency brake button came off, it looks
like the threads in the plastic button were stripped and a P.O. glued it
on.  The threads on the e-brake rod are all gooy with glue.  Anyone know
the mm. thread size for this?  I don't want to strip another one!  I
suppose these plastic buttons are available?  I have a '67 Westy that is
stripped and in rusty condition out on a piece of property that belongs
to my neighbor, about 12 miles away.  I can use the button off it, but
I'd prefer to buy a new one.  Are they available?

Once the brake springs are on right the squish should go away and MSB
will be ready for the road.  Aren't the brake springs available?  What
about the button and the lock washers?

Sorry this is long, . . . it's a labor of love, righ?!

Best,

Curt
'66 Kombi w/'63 23 window rag top
