Date: Tue, 26 Mar 2002 17:39:35 -0800
From: Scott Fraser <kn6f(-at-)dolphinsci.com>
To: mbarone(-at-)swbell.net
Subject: Re: [VB] Has anyone noticed the continuing BFY lie?

Mike,
Not having something is different from bait and switch.

That being said, I offer the following explaination how advertising can go bad
for a company.

When I was handling the advertising for my company, I could run ads on a month
to month basis, or commit to terms of 6 month, 9 months, 12 months.  Each had a
corresponding lower price per month.  Also associated with the bulk purchase was
the stipulation that we would run the same ad copy each month.  Again this kept
the price down. Another item is that we had to commit to the advertising and
have the copy ready to go, 2 months before the magazine hit the street.

Now back up from there the time to prepare the ad, come up with the material and
geeze, it was PAINFUL.

All the magazines that I advertised in were the same with regards to deadlines
+- a week and pricing terms.  There was no way that I could afford to go on a
month to month basis which would have allowed me the flexibility to change my
ads as external forces dictated.

It would not surprise me if BFY committed to a 1 year run of the ads, fully
intending on having a supply of the product, now they are stuck with copy that
generates leads, but ones that turn out to be sour.  Bad for everyone concerned.

Somewhere I have a scrap book with all the ads that ran in the various
magazines, a tremendous amount of work, lots of planning required and everything
for nothing, if you don't have the product that is being offered.

As far as lame excuses about working with his artist.  I completely believe that
100%.  I was lucky that at the time, had a professional publishing system on the
computers (12 years ago) and we were able to create our ads in house.  A buddy
of mine is pulling his hair out trying to get copy out of his "artist".  Delay
after Delay.  Most VW houses should have inventory/sales computer equipment, but
an in-house staff to design and develop ad copy?  I think not.

I was lucky.  We were able to handle the copy in house, my ad remained the same
for the 6 months at a time that it was run, and I didn't run out of product.

I've been to BFY, they are not a huge place. Few steps above Mom & Pop
operation.   I doubt they have an advertising department, copy writer, in house
artist and the equipment/software to create their work.   Also in these current
"boom times", I'm sure they are trying to save pennies where ever possible and
let their customers know they are still around.

Just trying to provide another perspective,

Scott
'60 DC

Mike Barone wrote:

> FW: Has anyone noticed the continuing BFY lie? The May issue of Hot VWs
> arrived at my door today and I was very disappointed to see the same BFY
> ad--BFY has not had the European bus assemblies since August (seven months)
> and they continue to listing them.  How is this different from bait and
> switch advertising that every state considers illegal?
>
> I've called BFY a few times (August, November, December, February & March)
> to see if they actually found some new headlight assemblies and I get the
> same answer—they sold all the assemblies quickly and did not anticipate
> getting any more.  Last month the guy on the other end of the phone offered
> a lame excuse about the difficulties of working with his artist.
>
> I've also contacted Hot VWs about this-I spoke to someone in the advertising
> department in mid-February and spoke to and wrote a letter to the managing
> editor in mid-March.  But the ad still runs.
>
> Assuming that truthful advertising offers information, product offerings,
> and pricing, what value does this BFY ad offer readers?  What does this say
> about the true mission of Hot VWs?  What does this say about BFY's business
> practices?
>
> I know the answer.  Both are lame.
>
> Disappointed and still tilting at windmills,
>
> Mike Barone
> Late '55 23 Window
> Houston, TX


