From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 1 Aug 2003 01:27:27 EDT
To: ddixon(-at-)mbay.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] new (old) engine

well, clean out those head/cylinder fins.  I wouldn't bother pulling the 
heads, but that's me.   Cause that leads to pulling the cylinders to pulling the 
pistons to pulling the rods to.....etc etc etc.   You might pull the rocker 
arms and check the torque on the lower head bolts.  If they are fine then don't 
worry.   I'd change the main and oil cooler seals.  make sure the oil cooler is 
clean where the air blows through it and it'll work better.  Do a tune up 
with the motor out (easy to adjust valves) Check the oil frequently, and change 
it as soon as it is dirty, even if that is 5 minutes idling in the driveway.   
If you take the rockers off adjust the valves in 200 miles, or just check them 
in 200 miles anyway.   Do not drive on a trip yet.  act like it is a new 
motor and you need to break it in.   Stay around town for 300 miles, or till the 
oil stays decently clean for 50 miles, which ever comes last.  That means do 
*not* immediately load up the bus with friends and dogs and camping stuff and 
head 4 hours in the hot weather to the funky stylin' campout.  Just  take it 
easy on the poor thing till it wakes up and gets back into the swing of life.   
Get a couple 2 piece push rod tubes for emergency replacements if you're 
worried that yours might start to leak.  

In a message dated 7/31/2003 8:08:18 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
ddixon(-at-)mbay.net writes:

<< the knock. Meanwhile, I bought a used engine from a '71 Ghia. It's a 1600 
cc
dual port, push-pull distributor, single carb, dog house set up, quiet pack
exhaust. The guy started it up on the ground for me. I sounded smooth. Who
knows how long it will last. I paid $450 for it. Before I put it into my 
57van, I 
want to at least clean it up. I pulled the fan off and found solid
 baked-on grease between the jug cooling fins closest to the case. Signs of
 overheating. Hopefully not damaged. I plan to do a compression test after I
 put it in my van. Does anyone think I should pull the heads off first? What 
is
 the downside? Any precautions other that the obvious? The push rods tubes 
look
 like they could stand new seals. Maybe would be a good idea. What is your
 opinion? Come on, I know everyone has an opinion. I appreciate reading your
 advice. What do you think?
 
 Dave >>
