From: "Mike Anderson" <mikeanderso(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 01 Aug 2003 15:09:16 +0000
Subject: coupla questions

Hello Everyone,

A couple of questions pertaining to the slooow re-assembly of the bus.

1.  Routing wires into the engine compartment.  There are two holes that go 
through the sheet metal on the right side of the engine for (I assume) 
wiring to pass through.  Could someone tell me what wires go through what 
hole?  I assume the left one is for the battery positive cable to the 
starter, and the right one is for the idiot lights (alternator, and oil 
pressure).  I've searched the photo galleries of the samba and vintagebus as 
well as the archives, but I can't find the answer.  I've also noticed in 
some pics that older busses only have one hole.  Why the change?

2.  Flasher relays.  As per matt roberds' advice, went to the NAPA to pick 
up a 559 relay (bus is 12V).  The good old fashioned 559 relay has been 
replaced with an electronically controlled relay.  Since I want the flasher 
to survive when the EMP comes, I asked the counter guy if they had any old 
fashioned thermal type relays.  He rummaged in the back room and came up 
with a 550.  It's a three prong relay, with tabs labeled X, P, and + just 
like the 559, the blister pack said it was a hazard relay.  Will this work?  
I epoxied a bolt to the top of the can so I can mount it in the stock 
location ;-)  BTW, NAPA has Sta-lube GL4 on the shelf.  Easier to find than 
I thought.

3.  Had an idea for mounting the gear shift to the floor, will try it this 
weekend.  Holding the gear shift, the bottom mount, the spring, and the 
bottom plate with the tab thingy on the side together while screwing it into 
the front shift rod mount thingy without a helper under the bus seems to be 
a PITA for those that have posted about it.  I'm going to try to wire tie 
the pieces that go inside the cab together through one of the bolt holes.  
Then I can put the whole assembly on the floor and get the first bolt 
started without having to fight against the spring.  Once the first bolt is 
in, cut the wire tie and do the second bolt.  What do y'all think?

Thanks!

Mike A.
'64 SO-34 in SLC
saving up money for that big rubber seal order....
