To: djaeby(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 2 Aug 2003 12:43:21 -0500
From: wilden1(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Re: [VB] I GIVE UP !!

Maybe I will just put the damn thing on eBay and buy a NEW CAR .. 
Diane
--------------------- Clip ---------------------------
Diane I sympathize with you.
I sold all my VWs.
I still have a 92 Crown Vic, 86 Olds Land Yacht Station Wagon and a
recently acquired 912e Porsche.
The body shop took three full weeks to paint the Porsche even after I
removed everything screwed on.
I've still got to take it back in ten days just to get areas painted that
they just flat missed, gas tank door, rear vent above window and some
dribbles on the roof.
No I didn't get my money's worth!
I'll still have to do some serious rubbing in a few spots.
Next is the new A/C hoses.
The guy rushed me to get them removed and now it's 30 days later and he
still hasn't made them up.
The statement, "We've been so busy" is what I always hear.
The next go-round with the A/C guy is that they won't work on Porsche but
after I get the hoses all back on they'll do the easy part and evacuate
the system and charge it. 
I wouldn't mind that if I were getting some type of long discounts but
I'm paying just like every retail buyer.
I ordered an exhaust system 30 days ago and I'm still being stalled off
by the guy saying "I showed one in stock when I took your money". Turns
out I've got to wait on some production run that might be within the next
30 days.
I've seen very few VW related specialty shops survive because they all
seem to be laid back and are content with earning less than they would
working 40 hours for the county repairing trucks and equipment.
In my little business I get my work out on schedule even if I have to pay
double or tripple fereight to get the specialty materials in.
I work those extra hours or start earlier to give the customer what he's
paying for.
A good way to select a service provider for VWs is to drive buy and see
if he's ever there at 7 AM or late at 6 PM.
Seems our world is full of 10:00 O:Clock scolars.
Now the hook! If you want a very good used car at a good price. 
Buy a 94 / 2003 Ford Crown Vic.
I say this because after a few Law Enforcement types got killed after
driving the same 4,800,000 vehicles for 13 years without any complaints
we suddenly have a string of very good cars driven by older folks that
are heavily discounted because of a tarnished image.
I have no idea why they didn't notice the exploding gas tanks for the
first 12 years that they used the Crown Vics and never made mention of
it.

Stan Wilder
