Date: Sat, 2 Aug 2003 13:31:51 -0700 (PDT)
From: Jim Ellis <ellisjames(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: VW_VINTAGE_list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] I GIVE UP !! (Vanbondo chimes in... )

Old timers on this email list may recall my three and one half year episode of
"restoring" a 1967 Westfalia. 

I might remind Diane that this process included some twenty eight (28) months
in the body and paint shop. I began to refer to this body and paint vendor as
the "Body shop from Hell". Just for matching sake I nicknamed the bus the
"Restoration from Hell" or more commonly known in drunken campfire circles as
the RFH. Everything about this process eventually had Hell added to it.
Yes, every process of every system was a genuine pain in the butt. It appeared
to me the I was paying the "Ellis" price for everything as I heard of
innumerable stories of acquaintances doing each other glad handed favors
including completion times that encouraged me to pull my hair out!~
I watched a well known (and nice guy) person within the VW bus circles acquire
a magnificent example of an original Westfalia for less than I had sunk into my
unpainted and far from completed shell of a bus. He named that bus 2HIPBUS and
drove it home. I plodded on for another thirty (30) months past his purchase
time before I was able to drive mile number one in my bus.

The facts are that the twenty something months and $5,000.++(1993 dollars) that
I spent on the body and paint was a fraction of what some folks in and out of
the Volkswagen world may have spent or are spending on their projects. The
timing of your projects' paint person or other vendor for other aspects of the
project may be within line of what other folks with even more clout and dollars
have spent in their quests. Add to the mix that they might also have multiple
zeros added to their invoices.

Yup, I understand the angst, but feel that Diane may be just now beginning her
journey. She, as was I and many, many others before us have learned that there
is more to restoring to factory specifications including the writing on the
heads of the bolts, refurbishing or simply owning and driving a
bus/bug/ghia/type III or whatever than cruising down the PCH flashing that
"hang loose" sign.

I gained a heck of an education by attempting a "restoration". I learned that,
in the end, hands-on involvement in my vehicle afforded me the opportunity to
more fully appreciate the end results of my project and the efforts of others.
Perhaps selling the bus may be the best option for you. Then again hanging on
to it and seeing it to what you see as the end result may afford you a more
thorough education... IF you choose to go that route. There is nothing wrong
with either path.

For myself I have chosen for the moment to drive a domestic vehicle for main
transportation and tinker with examples of the lower end of the bus world.
There is a beauty and hidden joy in owning a vehicle that may more hurt the
shopping cart in parking lot collisions. Compared to losing sleep at night
worrying about yet to be encountered shopping carts and door dings I prefer my
rat projects.

Until your paint person completes your new bus' new shiny coat of gloss, I
would recommend that you pick up a book by a cat named Pirsig called "Zen and
the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance". Kick back and enjoy life and a good book.
Jim Ellis
Formerly aka "Rusty VanBondo"
1994 Ford F150 (runs every time)
$200. Diesel Dasher POS w/salvage title and dented fenders
1963 EZ camper (that hasn't been touched in 11.5 months.) 




=====
Fancy vehicles and Fancy lovers are more proned to theft and worry and require more maintenance. A simple daily driver in each case may lead to a happier life after the final analysis.
