From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "daniel nelson" <danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com>
Cc: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 3 Jan 2003 19:52:46 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] still won't start, bad wiring or coil??

See if you have 12 or more volts at the hot connection to the coil, aka #15
terminal, the red wire, etc. Make sure the condensor is hooked up still. The
key must be just ON for this. No 12v at 15=no power from igintion. If you
hook 15 directly to postive, then start motor, you just bypassed the whole
igintion switch on a splitty, not recommended unless you want to test this
then get glove to pull spark to kill motor. Just checking 15 is enough for
me.
No spark at 15? See if across the battery is at least 12 volts, terminal to
terminal.

Taking a spare spark plug, grounding to a SAFE spot on the motor, and rince
and repeat 3 more times while someone churns the starter for you (E BRAKE ON
AND NUETRAL!) will SHOW you spark. A dwell meter will help you see if points
are cool 47 is the low side 52 is the high, 50 is the spot to aim for, as
per Muir. I once couldn't start a motor at all at 45.

Also, if the points are too close, starting is harder.

If you know how to do you valves from your 71, do it again. NEVER EVER trust
anyone unless they are a guru (I equate this to driving a bus EVERY day, for
a LONG time or logging more than 30k miles in the last 3 years.
You have to take it this way, and worry about the details later.
A) you have to have gas. A stuck needle valve, super nasty filter or tank,
no gas. I have pulled gas line and run it into bottle off starter to test
this. I was a dumbass that day and hooked up a brazillian fuel pump wrong
(input and output reversed over a 70 stock VW pump? Who would figure?)
b) spark, check it. (dwell time, voltage, and igntion components condition,
this is where you might have to concentrate now)
c) compression (valve adjust+ motor conditon) Valve too open, no
compression. Valves too shut, no flow.

Did you spark the coil to the case?

There's probably a ton of possibles I just missed, I'm new too.

Al






Per Muir book, I tested the coil and it didn't spark at all, so I'm thinking
bad coil right?

But used Volt meter on one of the terminals with the key on and didn't get
any Volts, does this still mean a bad coil, or is the wiring to the coil
bad.
