From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 3 Jan 2003 21:06:27 EST
To: danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] still won't start, bad wiring or coil??

well, you won't get electricity out of the coil if you aren't getting it into 
the coil.  The black wire on terminal 15 of the coil brings the electricity 
from the second to right most fuse on the fuse box in front of the drivers 
knees, which gets volts from the black wire from the ignition switch when you 
turn the key on. (black means hot with ignition on.  red means hot all the 
time)  So if you turn the key on and that fuse doesn't get electricity, it 
won't get to the coil (you can check the black wire there too if you like, it 
only gets volts with ingnition on) and the motor won't spark.   But since the 
starter was wimpy, sounds like you have problems getting electricity to 
anything.

One neat thing Muir shows how to do is take the wire off the center of the 
dist cap, turn key on, out of gear, turn engine round with wrench while 
holding the wire a hair away from metal (I use the edge of the carb the thing 
the spring goes to) and as the engine just about reaches TDC a spark should 
jump the gap and you hear a click.  A blue spark is great, and orange spark 
is wimpy.  I hold it with a clean dry rag so I don't get sparked.

Did you clean up the battery connections?  That's the first place to start 
when there's electricity issues.
..........................................................
In a message dated 1/3/2003 4:33:58 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
danielbnelson(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< Listees,
 
 Still trying to get my 66 13 Window to start, just bought her on new years 
 day.
 
 Per Muir book, I tested the coil and it didn't spark at all, so I'm thinking 
 bad coil right?
 
 But used Volt meter on one of the terminals with the key on and didn't get 
 any Volts, does this still mean a bad coil, or is the wiring to the coil 
 bad.
 
 I'm really confused and am not even positive I did the coil test 
 right....any advice info would be greatly appreciated.
 
 Thanks in advance,
 
 Daniel
 66 13 Window "Faded Bus"
 71 Westy "Scarlet Begonias"
