Date: Sat, 4 Jan 2003 00:06:09 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Testing Starters?

>From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Fri, 3 Jan 2003 20:55:24 EST

To expand on what Clara said a little, there are three wires involved
with bench-testing a starter:

1. Battery negative to starter motor
2. Battery positive to starter motor
3. Battery positive to solenoid

The first two have to be thick battery cables, or maybe a woven ground
strap for the negative cable - they carry a lot of current.  The third
one only has to be 16 gauge or better.

>attach starter to bell housing
>ground starter to ground on battery.  (I bolted a ground strap to the bell
>housing)

This takes care of connection #1 (battery negative to starter motor).
Make sure the starter housing and bell housing are shiny where they
bolt together, to get a good connection.  You can use a ground strap
or a battery cable to connect the bell housing to the battery.  Also
make sure the battery posts and battery terminals on the cables are
shiny.

>hm, think you have to hook + of battery to bolt on starter as well, not
>sure

This is connection #2 (battery positive to starter motor).  There are
two big bolts on the end of the solenoid; one has a wire or strap that
goes into the starter and the other should have no connection on it if
the starter is out of the car.  The one with no connection is where
the cable to the battery goes.  Shine up the cable end before bolting
it down.

>touch + of battery to push on connection

This is connection #3 (battery positive to solenoid).  The panel way
is to just use a screwdriver to jump from the bolt with the battery
cable to the push-on tab.  The Standard way is to make up a short, like
6", 16 gauge or better wire, with a female push-on on one end and bare
wire on the other.  Push the connector onto the tab on the starter,
and jump the other, bare end of the wire to the bolt with the battery
cable.  (Yes, you can make up a long wire and jump to the battery
positive terminal at the battery, but it is better to avoid making
sparks near the battery if you can.)  The 23-window Deluxe way is to
buy a generic starter button at the FLAPS, mount it to the bell
housing, and run a 14 gauge wire from one switch terminal to the
battery positive terminal and another 14 gauge wire from the other
switch terminal to a female push-on for the tab on the starter.  Paint
the switch and bell housing Sealing Wax Red.  Push the button and if
the starter is good, it will spin.

If the battery you're using to test starters isn't going to go right
back in a vehicle that will be driven enough to charge it, put it on
a charger when you're done.

Matt Roberds
