From: "Bob" <bobpetzel(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "vinbus" <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 4 Jan 2003 19:02:54 -0800
Subject: TSS repair

TSS problems are common in our busses. One of the list members was having a
problem with no R Turn. I had a TSS I sent him that was good when I totaled
the bus it came off of in '95. It sat since then. When it was install once
again it too had the same R Turn problem as the OG that came out. Well today I
got the TSS back and started playing with it and my VOM (Volt ohm meter). Left
turn my contact was perfect but the R/S resistance fluctuated all over the
place. I then proceeded to clean all the contacts I could reach with a Q tip
soaked w/ alcohol. There are some contacts you can't see so I remove the 3
springs, soaked it w/ alcohol and jiggled it around w/ the lever jumping
around to clean the inside contacts. Once it was cleaned up (DO NOT use brake
cleaner for this because it will suck the oil right out of the phenolic board
and make it brittle. If you have some contact cleaner is good to use. Alcohol
is cheap date and most have it at home). I tested it again with pretty much
the same results (a little better but not right yet). Then I was thinking
about disassembling it (may have been a goner if I had.....lol) when I noticed
the way it was assembled. 2 tabs into the frame and 2 rivets holding it at the
other end (also the rivets are a pivot point for some of the internals. The
rivets were holding tight but where the board was held in at the frame I could
move it. So I hooked up the meter once again, squeezed the board tight to the
frame and checked the resistance. Both sides worked perfectly! .003 ohms w/ no
fluctuation. With that I looked at the small gap and figured that a nylon
ziptie would fit perfect, as it was thinner at the start and got thicker at
the locking part. After inserting the nyties on both sides one more test with
the VOM. Passed with flying colors. Now the only thing left to test it with is
a load on it. I am building a tester for TSS's of any year of aircooled VW. It
will test at stock load and double stock load (Trailer hauling). But this one
I will load test tonight at 3 to 4 times the load of stock. A little overkill
but I would rather it fail on the bench then in a bus. Well off to Wally World
then the test when I get back. Results tonight.

Bob
'62 Kombi Swivel
