From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Sun, 5 Jan 2003 17:48:43 -0500
Subject: Big long studs that hold on heads - and Drilling holes in

So my motor had 2 different heads a 371 and a 373.The studs that hold the
heads on to the cylinders were different. The top 4 on one side were longer
than the top four on the other side.  I got new heads and it turned out that I
had to replace those longer studs on one side as well.  I pulled out one of
the short studs on one side and took it to a local guy and told him that I
needed 4 more just like this short one.  He said he'd look around and call me
and he did a few days later and I got the 4 short studs.  Problem is that are
still longer than the 4 short ones - in fact - I think they are as long as the
long ones I had but the threaded portion is longer so hopefully they'll work.
Anyway, today I got my work shop clean up a bit and thought I'd put my heads
on.  I went to replace the one shorter stud I had removed and it just kept
going into my motor.  It went in (probably 1/4 inch or so) deeper than the
other three.  Is there something I am supposed to put on these threads?  Or
should I just screw it in as deep as the other 3. The other three are actually
quite tight - it seems odd that this one won't tighten. That brings me to the
4 for the other side.  How deep do they go in.

In the 63 to 67 Bently manual, on page M-6 right hand column it says: "three
10 mm diameter holes should be drilled in the two rigs near the intake port
when the had has been repaired."  Then there is a picture in the left hand
column at the bottom of page M-6 that shows a head with 6 holes.  I'm assuming
that picture is of a head drilled as recommended.  Anyway, the head's I'm
using are NOS 371 A heads from 1961 (I think).  I'm thinking about drilling
those holes in these heads.  The NOS heads I'm using had to be cut to fit my
larger cylinders so I'm thinking that these additional holes would be a very
good idea.  Comments from gurus please.

jdd 60 std
