From: "John Pollock (EMP)" <John.Pollock(-at-)eml.ericsson.se>
To: "Type2 (type2(-at-)type2.com)" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 24 Apr 2003 18:31:25 +0200
Subject: Re: Fluke 77 continuity?

>I have this Fluke that I borrowed and was wondering what kind of readings I 
>should be getting for continuity. 
>
>I'm still "plugging" away at this wiring problem in my 69 and am new to the 
>multimeter thing and was only reading 3V at certain terminals that should be 
>12V. Jiggled the wires and suddenly got 12V. All of my connections do not seem 
>to be corroded to the point where it would cause interference. So I thought I 
>should check continuity in the main wires coming from the starter.

Nice meter by the way.... Use one at work daily, hence...

DVM's are good for two things.  Measuring steady state voltages and measuring resistance.  They can do a whole heap more, but that is what they are really good at.  To make a voltage measurement (specifically in a vehicle) connect your negative lead to the battery negative, and measure the point you intend test.  I assume you did this to do the initial voltage measurements.

For a resistance measurement (or continuity, which means one of two states of resistance, open circuit or short circuit) disconnect the battery (as this will confuse the meter) and clip one of your test leads at one end of where you want to measure and clip the other at the other end.  The meter (when set to ohms) should read somewhere between 0.5 to 2 ohms for a good cable.  Clip the two connectors together to find the minimum value you'd expect.  

By the sound of things you have a corroded or broken wire, the giveaway being jiggling the wire.  Wires age, corrosion reduces conductivity, and if they chafe over a metal part the bending can eventually break the inner conductors.  Jiggling the wire may be allowing some of them to make contact again.  If you try doing a continuity test (with the beeper on the meter so you don't need to look at it) and jiggle the wire you may be able to locate the fault.

I hope that helps...

Cheers
John Pollock
