Date: Fri, 6 Jul 2007 17:35:49 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Terry Paquette <TerryP(-at-)paquetteelectric.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Generator to Alternator

On Thu, 5 Jul 2007, Terry Paquette wrote:

> Hiya my fellow V-dubbers!
>
> I've got a '69 camper with a shoddy generator that I'm interested in
> swapping over to an alternator.  Any pointers?  I've never done this
> before.

It's rare to find a bus that has not been fiddled with, so it is important
to figure out what you have before you proceed to what you need!

First step is to look at the generator to see if it is a 30A or a 38A.
The number is stamped on the body of the alternator but it might be
covered with the mounting strap.

Next, check the belt for alignment.  Hopefully the belt will be straight
from one pulley to the other when viewed from the side.  If not, we need
to discuss this further.

If you are replacing a 30A generator, all you need is an alternator-style
stand, some bits of flat copper to make wiring adapters, some plastic
tubing for insulation, and the replacement gaskets for the alternator
stand.  Get a used German alternator stand, not a Chinese knockoff.  The
Chinese ones have cracked at the base.

If you are replacing a 38A generator, you need to add the 3 round tin
pieces that mount on the end of the alternator.  The 38A tin is dished a
bit to allow for a longer generator body and cannot be used with an
alternator.  You also need to add the 30A generator or alternator fan hub
as the 38A hub has the wrong offset for the fan.

You need to remove the generator and generator stand, install the
alternator stand, swap the tin pieces over to the new alternator, and
install the alternator.  Electrically, you simply connect the two large
wires at the voltage regulator to each other.  You connect the small wire
from the alternator (adding a female spade connector) to the small wire
that goes to the warning light at the front.  So, at the voltage regulator
it's basically connect big to big, small to small, and nothing to the old
voltage regulator!

If you haven't removed the generator before, be aware tha it is a pain,
but it can be done.  I prefer the method where the fan is removed with the
the generator in place, which eliminates the need to lift the fan shroud.

George
