To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sun, 8 Jul 2007 23:30:51 -0400
Subject: A busy VW weekend

Wow... what an exciting weekend that turned out to be.

The KW event was a lot of fun. It was nice and quiet on Saturday, I  
picked up my dinner at Tim Hortons on the way through Waterloo and  
had a few red cup beverages to unwind.

Sunday started at about 8AM with a $5 breakfast and a tour through  
the swap meets. Lots more VW friends show up and I take a long hard  
look at Tim's squareback because my brother Brent has wanted one for  
a long time. It looked a bit rough, but the price point was a good  
value. The weather put up a challenge... we had a couple of strong  
showers come and go but it wasn't nearly as severe as it could have  
been. As the afternoon wound down it was time to hand out the  
hardware, and the Bug_Pack was well represented: Brian Hutchen took  
home a 2nd place for Baywindow Camper in a very tough field, and Bob  
and Fiona Weber took first place in the vanagon category with their  
aircooled 1980. And then it was time to head home again.

But the heading home turned out to be a bit more complicated than I  
expected. I got just within 100 KM of home at Townline Rd.  
(Cambridge) and 401 when an engine rattle became a bit more  
pronounced. I was hoping it would ease off once I crested the hill  
but as soon as I passed the offramp the engine let out a shuddering  
explosive bang and then I was coasting powerless down the road. And  
as I quietly coasted along the back of the bus was filling with grey  
smoke. With the unstable weather I figured the best place to be was  
under the bridge, so I aimed the bus at the wide shoulders under the  
bridge and pulled over to have a look under the hood.

It only took a minute to see the problem... the #3 connecting rod was  
poking through the top of the case.

Houston, we have a problem!!!

Some cell phone minutes got used, and a plan developed. Jamie Rivers  
and his good friend Les stepped up to the plate and towed my bus down  
to Jamie's house. Don MacInnis had stopped by in his Eurovan westy to  
see if I needed help and followed us to Jamie's and gave me a ride  
home.  THANKS GUYS!!!!

Now I have to take a hard look at what parts are available and see  
what I can put together to get the bus back on the road ASAP. The  
Potts clan has developed a pretty healthy inventory of type4 engine  
parts over the past few years, and it's times like these where I'm  
glad I keep those feathers numbered.... "for just such an emergency".

Happy Trails, (more or less)

Greg Potts
1973/74/77/79 Westfakia "Bob The Tomato
www.pottsfamily.ca
www.busesofthecorn.com
