From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Blake'" <madmanblake(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 10 Jul 2007 09:38:30 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Breaking generator straps...

Blake,

By chance are you using generator straps on an alternator equipped engine?
The Generator straps are smaller and will stretch and break. I had a problem
with this on one particular bus. I finally switched to the captive bolt
style strap which held tight.

The scraping sound is either your fan on the fanshroud or your crank pulley
on the tin. Since have to pull the doghouse and shim the alternator per the
Bentley/Haynes instructions, so you will see if there are wear marks on the
doghouse.

Welcome back!

Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westy

-----Original Message-----
From: Blake [mailto:madmanblake(-at-)yahoo.com] 
Sent: Monday, July 09, 2007 9:10 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Breaking generator straps...

Howdy all, back after a few year's hiatus.

I've been having trouble with my '71 Westy - Thanks
JP! - and have gotten it working pretty well, with one
exception - it breaks generator straps like it's going
out of style.  I think it broke a couple of the
factory type aftermarkets which I blamed on crappy
material and design - the screw was always so short
that I had to get a longer one to get the sides to
connect and then cinch it all up.

I turned to using big zip ties - which worked (i.e.
they didn't break) but I guess they would stretch -
esp. at operating temperature.  I tried an EMPI
stainless steel one and it broke at around 500 miles
or less.  

I've had trouble with the fan before - it apparently
came loose from the old generator (I've got a rebuilt
one on it now) and the big nut scuffed up the spacer
washers (which I replaced with the new gen.)  It is
making a similar sound, sort of like when it revs the
fan is hitting the housing?

Other than make sure all the fan housing screws are
tight, ?????  I'm planning on pulling the engine in a
week or two, so I'll know more then, but any ideas of
what to look for - has this happened to you - is there
a titanium generator strap - or - ?????????????

Thanks for any information.

Blake
'71 Westy
