From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Martin Jr., D. Michael'" <martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu>,
Date: Wed, 11 Jul 2007 11:36:52 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] 1971 Type 2 Engine Recommendations

Michael,

I have done 2 "crate" engines and had excellent results from both.

My first was a 1914 from MOFOCO which sits in my Double Cab. It has
performed flawlessly even when run in fairly extreme conditions. I have
heard that MOFOCO "stock" 1600 engines leave something to be desired, but
their custom engines have excellent reputations.

The second was a new Mexican 1600 dual port longblock I purchased from my
local VW shop, NuVintage. It sits in my now sold '70 Deluxe and has run
perfectly with no leaks.

If I were you, I'd do the Mexican motor. However, I don't think* any of the
Mexican motors (someone step in here if I am wrong) come with a tapped
thermostat bracket bolt hole. You will have to drill it out and tap it,
which isn't a big deal at all. I had to do it on the 1600 crate motor I
bought. I think* it is omitted because the blocks were originally for late
style Mexican EFI motors which have different cooling tin.

Hope this helps.

Jon Stiles

-----Original Message-----
From: Martin Jr., D. Michael [mailto:martinm(-at-)montevallo.edu] 
Sent: Tuesday, July 10, 2007 11:11 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] 1971 Type 2 Engine Recommendations

Although I know the risk of being laughed at and I know this question
will probably lead to the someone saying, "Opinions are like
A$$^*!#$...everyone has one"... my question is...

Which is better... Rebuild your engine, buy a longblock, or buy a
turnkey?

I own a 1971 VW Westy that I bought off a guy for storage fees.  The
Westy was put into towed into a storage lot after stopping to run on the
Interstate.  All cylinders have little compression but I actually got
the engine to run after doing a valve job and priming the carb with a
little petrol.

I have never a rebuilt a engine (VW or otherwise) but do belong to local
VW club and have some knowledgeable friends.  I am, however, fairly
mechanically inclined and am not afraid of doing the standard
maintenance, valve job, rebuilding a carb, replacing the odd part, and
doing the occasional body work (panels, patch, and paint).

I own several other VWs...1972 Beetle, 1976 VW Transporter, 1961 VW Dune
Buggy, etc...

Time is the one thing that I have not had, recently, and that (along
with funds for other projects) has led me to the crossroad.  There are
so many vendors and options out there I would like to hear some feedback
from y'all with a good bit more experience than I.

Thanks,

Michael Martin
