Date: Wed, 11 Jul 2007 17:49:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jeffrey Hendery <henderyj(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Torsion Bar Adjustment

Yes, you now are "topping out" the suspension! You are
also ruining a set of CV joints by forcing them beyond
their normal wear pattern. (Guess how I know!)

The big trouble with adjusting the torsion bars is
reference: Reference to where it is and reference to
how far is how far. There is no practical means of
determining whether you have turned the inside spline
one tooth or five teeth until you've done it so many
times you just know!

Buy a magnetic adjustable protractor / level. It will
stick magnetically to the flat steel arm (swing arm).
Measure a good reference point for body height on both
sides and write the measurements down. Now go through
all the steps in the bentley to get to where you undo
the torsion bar. Don't pull the swing arm all the way
off the spline yet - just pop it off the stop. Put
your magnetic level/protractor on there and set it for
0 degrees. Now you can either pull both sides loose
(not off the splines!) so there isn't so much spring
action, or hypothesize how many degrees you need to
adjust to get the desired ride height.

 (There is a long involved way to get it exact but you
need to put the swing arm back in place and snug up
the bolts, then cause the bus body to lower to the
height you want (remember that first measurement?) -
by taking the opposite side loose, you can lower the
bus body to where you want it and get a reference
degrees off the protractor which is still attached
firmly to the swing arm)

So now pop that swing arm plate all the way off the
spline and adjust it to where you gat the desired
degrees reading on the protractor. See if it will
slide in at that point. If not, you may need to settle
for a different number or pull the torsion bar out far
enough to adjust the inside a click or two, maybe go
back one on the outside - keep playing with it until
you reach that number of degrees you decided to change
to. The inside spline is different from the outside
spline so by going a little here and a little there or
forward two on inside and back one on outside or vice
versa, you have almost infinite adjustment.

Whatever number of degrees you changed the first side,
do the same on the other side and you've got it made.
By using the adjustable magnetic level / protractor,
you do not need to count spline teeth - you just keep
adjusting until it's where you want it.

Here's the URL to the Craftsman one - you'll have a
helluva time with the link, so anyway, they call it
the Craftsman 39840 Magnetic Universal Protractor at
Sears.com It's $10 but after you've done it without
one of these, you'll set it's value at a hundred bucks
easily.

My first effort at adjusting the ride height took me
two days. The most recent time was two hours and it
was on Thanksgiving day before going home and cleaning
up then going to the folks' for dinner! The difference
was that tool! -BaH

http://www.sears.com/sr/javasr/product.do?cat=Hand+Tools%2C+Carpentry&pid=00939840000&vertical=TOOL&subcat=Levels+%26+Protractors&BV_UseBVCookie=Yes


--- Jeffrey Hendery <henderyj(-at-)hotmail.com> wrote:
 I had the torsion bar adjusted on my '74 Bay to
 raise the saggy rear end.  So
 now the rear tire is about level or flush with the
 wheel well (body) of the
 bus.  Before the body sat several inches below the
 top of the rear tires.  I
 have a situation now where the spring plate knocks
 against the stopper over
 minor bumps.  The spring plate rests less than 1/4
 inch above the stopper.  As
 I understand the recent adjustment was made to both
 the inner and outer
 splines one position.  Any suggestions on how to
 re-adjust the torsion bar so
 that the spring plate does not knock against the
 stopper?



-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
