Date: Wed, 11 Jul 2007 20:48:58 -0500
From: Andrew Philbrick <herrschildkrote(-at-)gmail.com>
To: OVWC List <ovwc(-at-)omahavwclub.com>,  Buskatiers
Subject: First Annual ICABOD Camp out

Hello Volks,

I wanted to invite everyone to the First Annual ICABOD (Iowa City Area 
Bug/Bus Occursion in the Dale ) Camp out held in the Valley of the Cedar 
River - Palisades-Kepler State Park in Linn County, Iowa August 
17th-19th.  Come out to camp out in a beautiful park located on the 
Cedar River just outside Mt. Vernon/Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

http://www.iowadnr.com/parks/state_park_list/palisades.html

I will begin taking reservations immediately for either electric or 
non-electric spots.  Prices are $16 for electric sites and $11 for 
non-electric sites.  As of now, there are 10 electric sites and 9 
Non-electric sites available for reservation.  In addition, there are 12 
electric and 9 Non-electric sites on a first-come-first-server basis.  
Modern shower and restroom facilities are available, as well as a dump 
station.

There are both dock and trail activities available.  A dock to the Cedar 
River is available for boating and fishing is available on the river 
banks.  Trails include a variety of wildlife, scenic views, and 
exploration of Indian Mounds.

Directions:

Feel free to google/mapquest this address.  It is in the correct location

700 Kepler Dr
Mt Vernon, IA 52314

Basic Directions from I-80:  Take Exit 246 and head North on Highway 1 
for 25 miles.  At the intersection of Highway 1 and Highway 30, head 
West 3.5 miles.  Turn onto Kepler Drive and into the park.  The entrance 
of the park is in a grove of trees and is difficult to see.  However, 
that grove of trees is the only cluster of trees on the highway.

Feel free to respond to me with any questions or clarification 
requests.  I will make any further information available to the lists as 
it becomes available.

Hope to see everyone on Aug. 17th!
Andrew Philbrick
herrschildkrote(-at-)gmail.com
712-326-5905
