Date: Fri, 13 Jul 2007 10:06:53 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: upsoups

	I may not need to claim it's Friday in the USA.  It sure is 
here  -  fine, after a 'once in 2 decade' wind/rain storm, worst N. 
of Auckland, thousands still disconnected from electricity and phone 
landlines by floods, landslides, etc.

	Almost every T2 bod has a list of unrequited plans to improve 
his vehicle, but I make bold to toss in some notions about upsouping. 
If these notions strike some resonance with those who've been 
thinking along similar lines, perhaps we can cooperate despite my 
difficulty in getting to Buses of the Corn & all that.

General Need
	    Brief bursts of power are the greatest need.  It can be 
not only embarrassing but downright dangerous to be too 
traffic-incompatible, even in the slow lane.  A few min at, say, 70 
bhp from  your normally 50 bhp motor will be most welcome for many 
hill-climbs.  Such a margin of gain in peak power  -    40% extra  - 
is typical of what can be gained by turbocharging, or by 
supercharging, or alternatively by nitrous oxide with water 
injection.  All of that was proven in W2 aircraft.  But can we do it 
more easily today?

How to Do It on the Cheap
	 The first c.10% is most easily gained by WI alone (with 
ancillary benefits to economy, cooling, & emissions).
	A means to get the next 30% or so could be nitrous oxide.  I 
know little of it and leave it aside for the moment.
	I'd like to open discussion of mixing fuel gas into the 
combustion air intake.
		A gas mixer injects natural gas (NG, mainly methane) 
or LPG (mainly propane & butane) by a simple shallow ring 'metal 
gasket' between the bottom of the carb and the intake manifold. 
Motors converted to CNG or LPG normally switch off the petrol 
compulsorily when switching on the gas (and v-v).  On fuel-injected 
motors, it is easy to get a lot of extra power by adding fuel in this 
form on top of diesel or petrol injected as usual into the cylinders. 
It would be desirable to blow more air thru the motor while adding 
this fuel, but it's not essential.
	LPG is already handled on many T2 for cooking.  Some fridges 
use it too.  The code of engineering to use LPG as a routinely 
refilled built-in vehicle-fuel bottle is very strict, and rightly so 
(ditto for CNG).  CNG as normally carried in vehicles requires far 
higher pressures -  3000 psi or more, and that lets even quite a 
large bottle take you only c.100 mi when that's the only fuel you're 
running on.  But a smaller cheaper bottle might hold, at an order of 
magnitude lower pressure, enough for the hill-climbing bursts of 
several trips.  The intermediate-pressure natural gas mains in 
typical N. Amer. industrial districts could be worth investigating, 
if you can get at one handily.  Full-P CNG is refilled overnight by a 
110V mains-driven 1/3 hp compressor in a corner of your garage, even 
if you have very low-P gas mains coming in.  CNG is thus ready to go 
as an untaxable cheap clean fuel.  More & more vehicles will be 
powered by CNG, and CBG compressed biogas  -  readily scrubbed for a 
few corrosion-promoting impurities.  My 'booster' idea may lead some 
toward that fuel exclusively.
	To what extent can fuel gas be added to a 'wide' open (i.e. 
pretty bloody choked-off) air stream which is already loaded with 
petrol vapour/droplets to give the optimum fuel/air ratio?  Doesn't 
sound too promising, eh?  Perhaps we also need a freer-flowing air 
intake tract.  Or of course, slap on a Judson  '-}    -  for 
nostalgic interest, but today we should be able to contrive better 
chargers.  Recall that the turbo on the Thunderbolt largely filled 
that fat 'jug' fuselage; the modern tiny 50,000-rpm turbo is not the 
only kind  ...
	For all youse mahdrn FI types, CNG or CBG spiking of the 
cumbustion air is likely to work.  In NZ when CNG had a minor surge 
of popularity, some diesel trucks had CNG added, and the diesel 
injection backed off as far as possible  -  enough to ignite the 
CNG/air, but down around 20% of normal.  Drivers who still had access 
to the control for the dieseline injection i.e the 'accelerator' 
would climb steep hills much faster than they ever had, and 
spectacularly overpowered sturdy big diesel motors, breaking some 
crankshafts etc.   So if you slap a NG mixer on your air intake, 
don't get intoxicated with your Judson-style extra power!

BTW  NZ briefly led the world in CNG technology tho' most of the eqpt 
has now been exported to Mexico & Bangla Desh.  The mixer appeared to 
be the crudest part of CNG kits; a firm called Rex put in some analog 
electricity to improve it, but I lost track of them.  Typical mixers 
were very simple.  Youse metalworkers can take a good look at a 
typical 'propane' mixer and scale it down.  Those going for CNG or 
CBG should try to study a mixer for LPG if they can't find a CNG 
mixer.

	I have no experience with FI VW so my ideas will be mainly 
based on my 1600 DP (running in nicely after rebuild).

	IMHO such upsouping should be monitored with temp gauges on 
at least 1 cyl head, and preferably EGT too.


-- 
Robt Mann
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'69 Renault 10  -  The Water Wagon
'61 Norton 600 Domiracer
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
http://www.dave-cushman.net/misc/mannject.html
