Date: Fri, 27 Oct 2006 11:32:58 -0500
From: Burt <hawkwolf223(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: AC

Having been license to handle all refrigerants, work on home and auto 
systems, etc, blah, blah, blah, I find a lot of this humorous and 
interesting.  Frustrating also, but <sigh>

Working on AC systems is not difficult.  Replacement refrigerants 
include some propane based refrigerants.  Yes, the same stuff which can 
go BOOM in the right circumstances.  Legal, too.  Only dangerous is 
certain circumstances, but the EPA and others have authorized them.  
Other replacements are blended of HCFC's (normally used in home systems, 
R-22 is an example) and other compounds which work fine until a small 
leak allows certain parts of the blend to escape, then the other parts 
of the blend quit cooling.  Full evac and recharge to spec is then 
required, which is expensive in a shop, and difficult to get balanced in 
the garage.

134a does worse things to the environment than R-12 Ozone depletion.  
Other things deplete ozone more than R-12.  Other countries still 
produce and use R-12.  Properly sealed systems do not leak, do not 
deplete the ozone layer, and the "body of science" is still 
controversial.  Yes, the ozone layer is thinning, myriad reasons exist 
for this.  Human beings are one of those, and we should not exist to 
deplete the ozone layer.  Air conditioning has cause a whole list of 
ills in the world, and should be completely outlawed.

Little of the above is really pertinent to Bus discussions.  I just had 
to chime in with my $.0000002 American (devalued dollar and all that).

FYI, old style York compressors (like the one in the '82) do NOT like 
134a.  Conversion to the newer Sanden's is strongly suggested.  For 
those wanting to convert, use the smaller or medium sized sanden's, 
construct a mount from angle and either change the end plate to one with 
suction and discharge coming out at right angles or have hoses with 
adapter ends made at the local parts/AC/hydraulic store.  The compressor 
seems to fit well, and direction of rotation is immaterial to the 
operation of the compressor.

Burt
The ethnocentric, right wing, pseudo-scientific nut case.
