From: "Dan Kroymann" <kroymann(-at-)stanford.edu>
To: "list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 25 Apr 2002 21:57:12 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] installing speakers (WAS "exhaust leak")

>Also, anyone installed speakers in the rear of there westy without
>taking up a lot of precious storage space?  Does anyone have
>pictures of this?

Yup.  The bus that I just bought had been wired beautifully by a PO to be a
concert on wheels :)  It's got two batteries so that it can power the 8 (yes
I said 8!) speaker stereo system for hours on end.  They even installed a
pair of subwoofers in part of the space underneath the rear bench seat.

So anyway, to answer your question.  I'm not sure if this was an aftermarket
add-on, or if the bus came like this, but in the rear, there is a "false"
ceiling about two inches below the actual wood paneling of the normal
ceiling (almost like a shelf that covers the entire ceiling of the bus from
the back forward until just behind the backrest of the bench seat).  Set
into this false ceiling are two woofers and all of the wires are hidden up
above the false ceiling.  There is also a small lip on the front of the
shelf that hides away the interior space of the "shelf".  Mounted into this
lip are two small tweeters.  All of the wires for these speakers are then
run over to the cabinet, down through the cabinet, through the space under
the bench seat, and then up toward the front along the left side of the
floorboards (actually they're underneath some carpeting that I have cut to
fit the floor space).

I'll try to take some pictures and post them to show you what I mean.  If
you have that same shelf in the back, then you'll know exactly what I mean,
but if the PO built it himself, I'll have to get some pictures to better
explain it.  The shelf itself doesn't really waste any space at all, unless
you typically manage to pack the rear of the bus completely full literally
all the way up to ceiling...

Hope that helps,
Dan

'71 Westy unnamed
----
"One does not climb to attain enlightenment,
rather one climbs because he is enlightened"
                       - Zen Master Futomaki

