From: Brown Jason <jbrown(-at-)DMCRecycling.com>
To: 'Dan Kroymann' <kroymann(-at-)stanford.edu>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 26 Apr 2002 11:04:21 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Door locks

Hi Dan,

	There is a possibility that you may have lock mechanisms that are
not keyed alike, but my first inclination would be that your locks are just
mucked up.  Try spraying some WD-40 in them and give them a good wiggle.
When I got my bus none of the locks worked, but with a little bit of time
and patience they all work smooth as silk now.  Be sure to finish up with
some good quality graphite lock lubricant or Tri-Flow to keep them working
smoothly.  
	Give this approach a shot first, hopefully you won't have to go any
further.  If this doesn't do the trick there are a few other likely
possibilities.
	There is a decent chance that your key is a copy of a copy of a copy
(you get the idea), or is an original key that is simply so worn down that
it will not operate anything but the most often used lock cylinders.  Every
time you get in your bus to go for a drive you unlock the drivers side door
and turn the ignition key.  Now add up how many times your drivers side door
lock and ignition have been turned since 1971 (over 11,000 days x number of
trips taken) and you can easily see that there is plenty of opportunity for
wear and tear on your lock cylinders and keys.
	You can have a new key code cut to original specs by Steve Sandlin
from http://www.steveslockshop.com.  He is a really nice guy and charges
fair prices, I can't recommend him highly enough to anyone in need of keys
for their classic VW.  Get some spares to keep with you in strategic
locations just in case you drop your keychain off the face of El Capitan or
something.
	Since you will be using your bus for climbing and camping, you want
to be sure that the sliding door lock works.  You can pull the handle by
undoing the screw on the inside and take the code off the shaft in less than
5 minutes.  This will at least afford you easy access to your gear and
sleeping quarters.
	If you are leaving your gear in the bus while you are away from it,
be sure to hide it as well as you can, no matter how good your door locks
are, a rock through a window will get a theif into your bus in about 2
seconds.   Expensive gear left in plain sight can make a target out of any
vehicle.  Pull your curtains closed when you are away from the bus to keep
would-be theives guessing...

								Hope this
helps,
								Jay Brown
								'72 Hardtop
Camper

-----Original Message-----
From: Dan Kroymann [mailto:kroymann(-at-)stanford.edu]
Sent: Friday, April 26, 2002 12:41 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Door locks


So I just bought my first VW (1971 westy in stunning condition) last week
and I've been running around all this week getting it in shape to move out
to Yosemite for a couple of months.  Currently, one of the only things
holding me back are the locks on the doors.  The key that I have manages to
open the drivers side door, but doesn't turn in any of the other locks...
It also starts the ignition.  This leads me to believe that it actually is
meant _only_ to start the ignition and that there is supposed to be another
key (which has been lost along the years) that opens the doors.  The
driver's side door lock is probably just so worn down that it works with the
wrong key anyway.

But before I go off and pay a lock smith to make me some new keys, I decided
it would be a good idea to check and make sure that this actually is the
case... in other words, do the old VWs use two different keys for unlocking
the doors and starting the ignition?  Also, I'm considering just taking it
to a VW shop and asking them to completely replace _all_ of the locks for me
so that I can feel just a little bit more safe about leaving my valuables in
the bus during the days in Yosemite when I'm out climbing.  Any ideas on how
much that would cost?  Are the parts to do that available such that I might
be able to do the work myself?

Thanks in advance for any help,
Dan

PS  Once I finish getting it ready to go, I'm going to take some pictures of
it and post them on the web.  This bus is in the most incredible
condition... its hard to believe that its more than 10 years old.  I'll let
you guys know once I've got them up.

----
"One does not climb to attain enlightenment,
rather one climbs because he is enlightened"
                       - Zen Master Futomaki


----------------------------------------------------------------------
  To UNSUBSCRIBE send any e-mail to: type2-unsubscribe(-at-)pon.type2.com
  To email the admin for list help only: type2-admin(-at-)pon.type2.com
 For additional commands send any e-mail to: type2-help(-at-)pon.type2.com
 Donations help keep the list going. http://www.type2.com/donate.html
----------------------------------------------------------------------
