To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: mattthewriter(-at-)hotmail.com;BusBarn(-at-)Prodigy.net;hillcountry(-at-)caltel.com;;
From: mikeg(-at-)pcisys.net
Date: Fri, 26 Apr 2002 10:26:15 US/Mountain
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: Hubcap? (LONG!)

Well I'll be a splitty's uncle!!  So the hubcap has finally crossed the big 
river and is seeing new sights.  That's really cool.  For those of you who 
don't remember (or who weren't on the list 3-4 years ago), Charlie Ford 
originally came up with the idea of passing something from bus to bus from the 
east coast to the west coast and maybe back again with a log book to document 
it's journey.  One of the first suggested items to be passed was a lawn jockey, 
but that seemed a little big so the hubcap was settled on.

When the idea got posted to the list, a lot of folks thought it was cool, but 
were worried that the fairly direct route that was being considered would leave 
them out.  So I jumped in and worked with Charlie and the idea was modified to 
have the route zig and zag up and down through the U.S. to touch as many people 
as possible.  Everyone thought this sounded great so someone (sorry, I don't 
remember who - maybe someone name Ian?) put together a web site with a way to 
sign up where you were and how far you could drive with the hubcap and the 
journey was launched.

Everything went pretty good for a few months as the hubcap travelled down the 
east coast and the website was updated regularly with progress.  Pictures were 
taken of the handoffs, odds and ends were added to travel with the hubcap, and 
someone tossed in a box to hold all the stuff.  But then, for some reason, 
interest waned and the hubcap disappeared from sight for a while.  Finally it 
turned up again (in Florida I think) and arrangements were made to get it to a 
big bus show somewhere in the southern states (sorry, again, my memory is fuzzy 
and I don't remember people and places).

Then, for some reason, the hubcap seemed to backtrack and some of the same 
people even carried it for a second time while it seemed to travel up and down 
the country, but never moving west.  Another listee stepped in and tried 
valiantly to get the thing moving again, but after being ragged on time and 
time again, decided that involvment was a big pain in the ass and gave up.

So for the past 1-2 years the hubcap has been travelling around fairly well, 
but has never made much progress toward the west.  I believe it even went to 
Canada and back.  Nothing to complain about, but it's been kind of a sore 
subject off and on since it seemed like it would never leave the Eastern U.S.

But now I hear it is in Kansas and Britt Grannis is taking it (in the infamous 
Road Cow no less!) to the Classic where it will no doubt move on to new hands.  
Maybe we can get it moved through Colorado this Summer during the RMMW show?  
I'll keep my fingers crossed, my ears open for it's whereabouts, and my bus 
tuned up and ready to go meet someone to collect it :)

Disclaimer:  This account is based on my (questionable) memory and my own 
opinions and perceptions.  If I've left out or mis-stated facts or have 
slighted anyone, please accept my appologies and feel free to post corrections 
to the list and/or me, but please, please, please don't jump down my throat 
about any of this.  I remember some of the ugly emails and bad feelings that 
this idea has generated over the past 3 years and I don't want to get in the 
middle of any of them again.  That's why people like myself, Charlie Ford, 
Ian?, and Chris Huff washed our hands of trying help the hubcap along on it's 
journey in the first place.  The hubcap is a cool idea and (hopefully) it'll 
eventually find it's way through everyone's hands that want to see it.

Mike g.
73 Westy
58 single cab - Zorm (for 2 more days - sniff)



---------------------------------------------
This message was sent using Endymion MailMan.
http://www.endymion.com/products/mailman/


