Date: Fri, 23 Apr 2004 15:49:04 -0700
To: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: alarm im werk

dug up a review of the book i bought from melissa jess... the google 
translation is priceless. probably much more fun than the book.

i especially like the last paragraph... would make a good sig file!

Title: Alarm in the work
Author: Erich Kuby
Appeared: 50'er years
Publishing house: Franz cutter publishing house
Price: no more in the trade available - > flea market

In the order eigendlich correctly (the continuation tape had we you 
in the last expenditure presented) however hopefully nevertheless not 
too late to place we you here another book of Kuby concerning Thomas 
and its passion for Volkswagens forwards.

Thomas and its family live in Vorsfelde with wolf castle.  Its father 
and its brother work both in the Volkswagen work.  The brother even 
in the research department.

The dream of the boy is it, later once in the work to work to be able 
exactly like father and Bruder.Bis there is it however still another 
one while (see continuation tape).

When a daily Thomas father must travel and the nut/mother becomes 
ill, Thomoas the school schwaenzt over for a gang the plans of the 
opposing gang to explore.  Here discovers he, which the red wolf 
wants to operate as leaders of the enemies and an unknown quantity 
industrial espionage with VOLKSWAGEN.  With falsified visitor badges 
these want to actually bring information about the new engine from 
the research department for the Volkswagen.

Thomas and its friends prevent this and the authors are seized.  As 
thanks for it the friends get a lot except a work guidance still 
everyone for the lining up celebration to the 1-millionsten 
VOLKSWAGEN (see continuation tape).

Result:  Exactly like the second volume a light reading for children 
at the age of 10 - 14 years, already presented.  As expressed youth 
book very fastidiously for adults, however to one quite maintenance 
seed does not give an idea of (protect?)  Events to old Volkswagen 
days.

Typical passage in the text: "if you me ask, are the people those the 
Schwarzhaarigen sent stupidly.  Terribly stupidly.  Those spy with us 
completely in vain.  I believe, we the Volkswagens like that as he am 
still ne while now will sell, some Jaehrchen, and which they invent 
there in it, those are only improvements."
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
