Date: Sat, 7 Jul 2012 00:55:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: Aubrey Allen <notorious_a_u_b_(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Friday Message-Beetle Help please..

I meant to post this message on Friday, and waited two days to post it, then
finally got to a computer by midnight Saturday.  Woops.  I need help working
on my '68 Beetle.  It will help me finish my busses, since I'll be
consolidating parts, and cleaning my yard and Garage.  This is my question.  I
have Hawaiin-Look Rubber for all the windows.  But I have pop-out quarter
windows, not stationary.  I asked my mom's boyfriend, who's helping me with
the build if I can still use the pop-out quarters.  He said its no problem.  I
asked him, "Have you actually seen it done?  I've only seen them stationary
when the white rubber is on back?"  He said yes again, but when I look at the
rubber, how the window mounts, and latches, I don't really see it.  Does
anyone on the list know for sure without a doubt, before I try to move
forward.  Or can describe the mounting procedure by chance.  I live in
Northern California, and used to drive this Bug with
 both windows down, the vents open, the quarters open, at night, at 80mph, and
I was still hot.  It is a Hardtop, and I don't want to give up the quarter
window pop-outs.  I've converted the front to Cal-Look Glass and I'm actually
also getting ready to cut the roof, and make my own custom tonneau cover to
keep it cooler in the vehicle.  Any suggestions would be greatfully
appreciated.  So far I think I may be able to mount the rubber onto the glass,
maybe adding a thin layer of silicone adhesive to keep it sticking.  Then bolt
the latch, and hinge back to the window frame.  Then when I lock the glass it
will be pressed up against the outside of the frame.  It doesn't seem right
though for some reason.  I'm temporarily lost right now, but I have time for
suggestions while I finish some paint detail, and some wiring.  Thanks again,
Aloha!


Sincerely,
Aubrey James Allen
------------------
1959 VW Double Cab
Pick-Up
1968 VW MicroBus Deluxe
1968 VW Standard Beetle
1980 Chevrolet LUV
Truck 4WD
1995 Honda Accord VTEC Coupe
