From: "Wakanska" <Wakanska(-at-)sbcglobal.net>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 09:33:40 -0800
Subject: '78 engine carrier

I have a question for the pro's and mechanically-savante.
This is my first FI engine. I probably would not have chanced it, but some of
you on the list assured me that they are nothing to be scared of working on.
Those words were ringing in my head when I was deciding whether to buy it or
not. It has been a bit of a long project, but this has less to do with the
level of difficulty than the other demands on our time. It seems these days
that we are continually doing things for the old folks in the family. They
come first, followed by other things. Spare VW's come last, but at least we
wait until we can manage to "do it right".
This is, of course, the "pancake" style, and it is suspended by a carrier bar.
We took this engine out, and were surprised to see that the carrier bar slid
freely from side to side in the space it occupied beneath the shrouding, etc.
This does not seem quite right, and I suspect that some bolts have come loose
and fallen away, but I cannot examine it without pulling off a lot of stuff.
We only took the engine out to inspect the clutch, and did find an exploded
clutch plate, bad throw out bearing (failed retaining clip). All of that was
replaced, and the flywheel was resurfaced and balanced with the new clutch
pressure plate. Also we replaced the needle bearing for the transmission end
shaft, per T2 list instructions (wonderful!). Also we checked and cleaned the
fuel tank, and the fuel tank sending unit, fill neck tubes, and all vapor
recovery lines have all been replaced. We have been doing this project slowly,
in between other time demands. Today I hope to finally replace ALL of the
engine fuel lines (FI system) and a couple of broken ignition pigtails on the
fuel injectors. That should about do it.
  The engine was a very strong running engine before the clutch went out, and
all the brakes were just redone. So, I have high hopes for this one. It's a
bit rusty, but should be a very good using bus after we're done with this
project.
  Before we put the engine back in, however, I just want to see if I can find
out anything about the carrier bar. It looks like a piece of heavy square tube
with a flange on either end.
Thanks in advance!
