From: jbrush(-at-)aros.net
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 11:23:44 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Lack of Confidence in Van

Perhaps I can step in here and solict some kind words or thoughts that
might help me over this problem?

I own an 81 air cooled, type 4, vanagon. For the 14 years I have owned it,
I have thought the world of it, and it has taken me nearly 100K miles
beyond the 95K it had when I bought it. New clutch, oil leaks fixed,
standard maintenance by professionals have kept it ticking pretty well. It
has been great. 

Last summer, I had some problems with the fuel pump and it stranded me
twice in a week. I know its stupid, but those two times really cost me in
the confidence department. I used to be certain it would get me home, now
I am not, even tho its irrational.

Over time, I have managed to mostly convince myself that the fuel problems
are solved, and I take it on a lot of short trips, but its still on my
mind 100 miles from nowhere, when I get in to start it up. At this point,
I realize I am being silly and sophomoric, but after reading the two
vanagon lists for years, all I have heard about air cooled type 4 motors
is that they all eventually drop a valve seat on "old number 3" Probably
not always true, but it is what I read.

Having gotten nearly 200K out of this motor with zero major problems, I am
now excessively concerned about a catastrophic failure hanging me out to
dry in the middle of the desert, or up the mountains of Montana.

I cannot really afford a rebuild at this point in time. 

Its true that we only really read about problems in the lists, and that
those without trouble are silent, but add in all the other problems I have
had in life the past 4 or 5 years (woe is me <g>) and suddenly, I have no
faith in my van being able to get me there and back, even tho it runs
great, and shows no signs of age, other than low on power, not unlike me
:-)

Compression is about 100 psi per hole, I have an oil temp gauge in the
drain and the temps never get beyond what has been considered too high. No
oil leaks. Outside of the incident where the fuel pump failed me, it has
been fine.

I acknowledge that I am crazy, and its probably paranoia, but the idea of
getting out and getting stuck really keeps me home too much, in spite of
the great weather, and amount of great places that I can visit.

I can fix most things, but the valve seat problem is beyond most of us,
when we are in the middle of nowwhere.

I have AAA+, and could survive being stuck, I just am in "worry mode" so
travel is no fun.

Having bored everyone with those details, may I request any words of
wisdom, advice, experience, or perhaps hear from anyone else who might
sometimes feel this way? How do you get past it? 

Anyone have tremendous mileage on a type 4 without any valve seat failure?
Anyone ever drive the van very far after dropping the valve seat? :-)

Is the failure really inevitable?

Would it be stupid to pull the heads and redo them, leaving the bottom end
alone, at this point in its life? Standard heads, or the newer ones that
supposedly don't suffer this fate? Can't really afford it tho, but if it
helps me enjoy the van, I may have to........

Thank you for the space in the list. I read a lot of posts, and frankly,
the fact that my van runs so well often keeps me out of conversations as I
have little to add, and fortunately so far, little need for help.

Thanks in advance for not razzing me too badly :-)

Regards,

John
