From: "Timo Schairer" <timo.schairer(-at-)student.uni-tuebingen.de>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 10 Mar 2003 20:41:53 +0100
Subject: Re: [T2] Lack of Confidence in Van

...
> Anyone ever drive the van very far after dropping the valve seat? :-)
...

Hello John,

I cannot say much about how to get new confidence in your van, 'cause I
always have a lot, but I never had to get mine towed away, even if there was
some serious damage...
I had a dropped valve seat on my trip from Germany to Norway right in
nowhere (North-Norway). Since I did not have the money to get it fixed
there, I had to drive my 78 Westy home for say 2000miles. What I did (and
would do again) was: put out the spark plug, remove the rocker arm assembly
of the affected cylinder, remove the pushrods. Look at the valve-springs. If
one of them does not go all the way out, then your valve seat did come loose
and prevents the valve from moving all the way in. Try to turn the engine by
hand. If it's pretty hard to do or simply impossible, the valve most likely
gets hit by the piston. Reassemble the pushrods and rocker arm, turn the
engine just to the spot where you can't move it any more. Turn it back and
forth with little pressure (what you want to do is get the valve seat in
place to let the valve travel a bit more into the cylinder head, without
damaging the piston). Repeat this very often and if you have some luck (and
the valve not bent too much by the piston, cylinder head not damaged too
much by the loose valve seat, ...) you can turn the engine again by hand.
Now you are pretty sure, that no valve gets hit by a piston. Remove the
rocker arm assembly and pushrods of the affected cylinder again, put valve
cover back on. Again, try to turn it by hand. If this works, try to start.
Your engine will for sure have no good idle (but you can adjust that), a
popping noise (air getting forced out of the spark plug hole) and loss of
power (since your running on 3 cylinders ;-) ). But the good thing is, at
least you can bring your van home. Travelled 2000miles this way, had very
bad gas-mileage and learnt to push the brake, clutch and gas all with two
feet...

Be sure to do things like this only if it's some sort of emergency, since
parts of the valve, cylinder head, ... could be floating in your engine and
doing bad things there.

Trust in your van,

Timo Schairer

'78 westy
'84 beetle
(no good english)
