From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2002 17:20:8 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Buying bus parts

no flame intended, just my humble opinions based on my past experiences.

first: if you don't know what a part looks like or what it's called, why
are you even working on the car in the first place? maybe you should be
taking it to a shop. the tools part i can understand to a point. some shops
make money in repairing vehicles and to lose some of that income by
spending an hour on the phone isn't a good way for a shop to make money.
maybe it should be up to the customer to be at least conscious of what
they're dealing with, what they are trying to accomplish. some technical
guidance is nice, but to have to get into the intricacies of a major repair
on the phone is ridiculous and can get someone in more trouble if they
don't know what they are doing in the first place.

second: not all shops want the hassle of dealing with both
in-person-at-counter and phone AND internet. not all shops have the extra
time to deal with the web and maintaining a website on a
weekly/monthly/whatever basis. some shops i've talked to hire another
person just to handle internet stuff. one more mouth to feed....better be
turning lots of volume to support it.
why should everybody have a website by now? sound a little elitist and
plastic. forget how to use a phone? is your dialing hand broken? i'd much
rather have a printed catalog to look through, and use a website to see new
items and to check stock (WW is a great example). i can find things faster
in a WW catalog than on their site. if everyone had a super glitzy website
that was surfable by mind power, that would be rather boring. plus some
shops don't want the hassle, and don't have the budget to pay someone else
to make one/maintain it for them.

third: YEAH RIGHT! if every shop had the time to devote to knowing what all
their competitors were selling stuff for, nothing else could be
accomplished. that is for the consumer to shop around. sure, some things
will be known by sheer volume of parts moved, but everything? not
realistically possible. phone calls/web surfing is usually a fast way to
comparison shop.

for 4 years i worked at a parts counter at a very busy vw shop, with over
10,000 parts in stock at any given time, and if all the things originally
"suggested" actually happened it would have required twice the amount of
people, time, and computers. some things actually did happen, such as
notifying customers of special orders arriving, shipping/stock delays, but
to notify every customer of every single stage of a transaction just isn't
reality. if you're worried that ups hasn't showed up with your package and
you know it's been too long, then track it. i think many of us have dealt
enough with shipping companies that we have a general idea how long it
takes for things to get to your house from various parts of the country. if
i had to follow up or send a letter to every single customer thanking them
for their purchase, i'd have burned up 1000's in postage, and countless
hours of unproductive phone time. plus, most of the time in normal
conversations on the phone, shipping time eta was given, because the
customer asked the question. 
the "suggestions" would be perfect if this were a perfect world, but it
isn't.



> [Original Message]
> First 
> As a shopper, it is really hard when you (a) don't know what a part 
> looks like (b) don't know what a part is called (c) don't know what 
> parts or tools are needed to complete a job. 
> You would think that a retailer would recognize this and make it (a) 
> easy to identify a solution to a problem (b) make it easy to identify 
> parts (c) provide guidance in completing a job.

> Second 
> Make it easy to buy parts from you. You should have several different 
> ways to order parts - by phone, by fax, by mail, by web.
> You should have a website by now. Your website should be easy to 
> navigate, pages should load in 8-15 seconds, the buyer should be able to 
> find the right part or solution in less than 5 minutes. The purchase of 
> parts should be equally smooth.
> 
> Outdated material on your website - like specials from August 2000 - 
> makes you look amateur. On that point, you should have something for 
> people to come back for - tip of the week, or tip of the month - repair 
> highlight of the month, etc.
> 
> Third
> You should know what your competition sells parts for, you should know 
> how they sell parts, what the buying experience is with them - and you 
> should do better than them. 
> If you provide methods of communication with your customers, you should 
> be responsive. If you have a core policy, you should have a notification 
> that you received the core, that they did or did not make it back in 
> time for a refund, etc.
> 
> When people buy parts, you should be able to give them a shipping ETA, a 
> follow-up email or phone call if there is an unexpected delay, give them 
> a website or account number to check on order status.
> Reward your customers by not being a black hole. Let them know that you 
> will be at a show coming up, etc.
> Follow up with customers after they buy parts. Send them a 'newsletter' 
> or letter of thanks. Let them know if you have any new parts or 
> specials. Customers will reward you with purchases.





