From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 8 Feb 2002 20:33:10 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] Buying bus parts

i think you're missing my point. you don't need to know everything, and
nobody does. but all vw parts do have a part number (see parts book on
vintagebus for example). and yes, different shops/suppliers may list them
differently, but if they don't use vw numbers, they at least should have
the resources to cross-reference to an application at least. and a good
percentage of parts actually have part numbers cast/stamped/printed on
them, so if you have the old one, there shouldn't be too much confusion if
dealing with a vw specialty shop.
and when i said the thing below (see -------Original Message------), i
meant it collectively, like if you'd call someplace and be like "i need the
thing that fits around that round thing on the front of thething with the
square looking............" i think you should not be alowed to hold a
wrench.
no, you don't have to be fully versed or an expert to work on things, but
if you ask for help, you should at least be able to describe it so the
other person knows what the heck you're talking about, like where is it on
the vehicle, any identifying marks or numbers, etc.
with all the books and web based info available, there is no reason to be
ignorant or not to have an idea of what things are called to have a
coherent conversation if needing assistance.
oh yeah, i'm not calling anyone a moron, stupid, or the like, hence the no
flame intended and my replies are directed at the general arena (for
conversation, devil's advocate, thought provoking, eye opening,
whatever..), not at anyone in particular, and i don't mind getting greif
over it either. 
all i'm saying is that after experiencing this first hand, it makes things
easier when the customer can at the minimum draw a picture of what they are
talking about or needing.


> [Original Message]
> 10,000 parts and I am expected to know them all before I turn a wrench
> on my bus? Uh... no.
> 
> ----- Original Message -----
> 
> first: if you don't know what a part looks like or what it's called,
> why
> are you even working on the car in the first place? maybe you should
> be
> taking it to a shop.




