From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 9 Feb 2002 13:22:15 EST
To: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org
Subject: iceRe: [VB] Carb and manifold take-outing

what is your pre heat system like?  This time of year here in OLY wa, the 
carb icing is hard core.   bus starts up nice in the morning, I go back 
inside to grab my stuff and let it warm up a bit.  bus dies  from carb icing. 
 So I come back out, start it up again, and it starts, but sputters and 
chokes a bit, so I sit there with my toe on the gas (gotta keep a chunk of 
wood in the bus for this) to suck the heat through the air cleaner, the 
horizontal tube and finally the carb and into the manifold.   drive out the 
drive and sometimes it protests a bit at first when I accelerate, but within 
1/4 mile its fine.   the icing is on the throat of the manifold just under 
the carb, it doesn't ice the horizontal part of the iintake.  a manual choke 
would be real good, but a piece of wood to lean on the gas pedal would be 
easier to install.    I am thinking about the 2" preheat tube modification.   
 It just means swapping the rear tin,  and adapting an aircleaner.   

what is that, one of the laws of thermodynamics, it takes energy (heat) to 
vaporise a liquid, to break the cohesive tension between the molecules of the 
liquid, so even though the gasoline is vapourised mechanically, the heat is 
sucked out of the surrounding area, which makes the manifold really cold and 
the water in the air condense on the outside of themanifold and even freeze.  
    And the preheat air ideally is picked up right by the head, but has to go 
through the metal pick up tube, the paper tube to the air cleaner (short or 
long depending on your set up) into the cold metal air cleaner, the cold oil, 
through the cold horizontal pipe and down into the  cold carb.   Basically it 
takes some time for the air to reach the carb to get warm, as the other bits 
have to be warmed first.    If you start the bus and sit on the milk crate 
and watch, you can see (feel) hoe the parts of the system warm up 
progressively, last of all the piece just over the carb gets warm to touch, 
dunno if the carb itself actually gets warm, but it does stop freezing

Thats why I like the idea of the 66/67 pre heat system, where the air is 
picked up at the heater box, and is actually blown into the carb.   air 
picked up is probably hotter as well.   

Is anyone actually runnning that system?   It would be interesting to time 
different set ups.

read somthing in one of the earlier VW transporter workshops manuals, which 
said people had been complaing about carb icing and bad performance, but they 
were just going to have to deal with it.   Soon afterwards VW started putting 
preheat on the buses.  :)

ya, I know I am kind of obsessed with carb icing.  


In a message dated 2/7/02 9:51:50 PM Pacific Standard Time, vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org 
writes:

<< 
 i was furious the other day when i had to bum a ride to work from my
 neighbor... it was cold and raining, and my bus wouldn't even roll down the
 driveway; the NEW carb that i had put on the night before was ENCASED in
 ice :P    too wet to bike.
 first time in 5 years the bus had let me down, tho.
 
 now, i had completely cleaned the heat riser when it was installed a year
 ago, but i have been having such trouble with carbs running overrich that i
 imagine it just coked up doubletime.
 took it out, and ran a clutch cable thru it for an hour or so, until it
 would go in one end and out the other.  i'm talkin c l e a n.
 when it was all back together, car srtarted right up...  and danged if
 there wasn't condensation on that carb riser :P
 at least it wasn;t ice, tho it was nearly cold enough for it.
 i have the thermostat set up, and i have a preheat hose to the aircleaner.
 so i guess my car just likes to set a spell until its REALLY warm before i
 take off, or i'll have some mild stumbling due to carb icing.
 
 might wrap the heater tube with muffler tape, too.
 
 other than that, it ran dandy... i'll have to see what my milage is.
 the new 30pict1 set me back $150, but it really made a difference.  nice to
 have a non-used part once in a while.
  >>
