From: "Rich Van Baalen" <rvanbaa1(-at-)tampabay.rr.com>
To: <Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 10 Feb 2002 16:50:45 -0500
Subject: RE: [VB] Cant get Tie Rod off

... by gosh and by golly, its off!!!!!!

I went down to the local parts store and a 'pickle fork' for $7.00.
Both sides of the bad tie rod wouldnt come off at first.  The one in the
center came off quickly after sticking the fork in and a couple of good
tugs.

The one on the wheel was a bit more difficult.  Since the one on the center
was off I could spin the wheel.  I cut it full left, stuck the pickle fork
where the end of the handle was sticking on the outside of the vehicle.  I
then jumped on the pickle fork handle and it came off <g>

Time to relace the steering dampner (since I am there and put everything
back together.

Thanks everybody!!!!!
--Rich


-----Original Message-----
From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com [mailto:VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Sunday, February 10, 2002 4:36 PM
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Cant get Tie Rod off


In a message dated 2/10/2002 1:08:31 PM Pacific Standard Time,
ttackman(-at-)yahoo.com writes:
> One trick suggested by "No Quarter".  for dealing with rusted bolts, or
> whatever, is candle wax, heat up the part, apply the candle.

Hi Ttackman,
With threaded fasteners this is a good trick because the wax can and will
work it's way in due to capilary action, lubricating the parts!  The problem
with tapered fitted parts is there is a gass tight bond keeping them
together!  The old roller bearing cranks are actually made of many segments
tapered fitted to gether to allow removal & replacement of the roller
bearings.  Heating the spindle is a bad idea due to possibly anealing
(softening) the part damaging it for future use!

 Have you > tried using a pickle fork?
>
The only problem with those is they almost always damage the tie rod end,
especially the rubber boot on there.  The factory press out tool is like a
C-clamp, but goes around the tie rod end allowing it to pop out..  We were
fortunite to find one made in Brazil.
  As for being concerned about a hammer bending the spindle arm.  We really
doubt that using a standard hammer (Do not use a BFH or sledge hammer!) will
bend it any amount more than hitting a pot hole will do.  But if you have
two
hammers at hand it couldn't hurt, and may force more impact into momentarly
deforming the tapered fit hole.      Eric&Barb

