Date: Wed, 06 Oct 2010 08:54:32 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Joel Cort <joel_cort(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Save the Bus in D.C. - Freedom of expression - Save

So what kind of camper top is that? Never seen one of those unless it is 
a Westy without the luggage rack over the cab.

I'd rather see somebody rescue that bus and restore it - stop the rust 
and so forth...

On the other hand it's their bus and their dreams.

On the other hand perhaps they have a neighbor or two who have decided 
they are tired of looking at it.

We've moved both of our in-op aircooled VWs undercover years ago. Mostly 
to stop any rust but also to give the neighbors a break who never 
complained. Take a free good condition 10x12 sehd and add 4-6 more ft to 
it's length and you have a Beetle shed.  A Bus shed would need to be 
MUCH more substantial and taller.

Once upon a time we got a copy of the neighborhood restrictions in our 
mailbox. We worried that having two sheds and a in-op bus in the 
driveway was a problem but speaking to the other neighbors revealed that 
everybody got a copy so it was hard to say what motivated the phantom 
mailer. We're supposed to have only one shed and no in-op vehicles. It's 
good to live in a rural county! Someone COULD have argued that our Westy 
was an RV and the restrictions say no RVs either. Of course two of our 
neighbors have HUGE 5th wheel trailers so I think our little Westy would 
be overlooked.

Our neighbor to the north is the county codes enforcement manager and he 
has a second garage with a dead '65 Mustang, about half of a Studebaker, 
a pair of dead jetskis, and a seldom used uncovered fishing boat sitting 
outside. I doubt he's going to come knocking on my door... LOL!

I have a love/hate feeling about our neighborhood. It's quiet and safe 
and everyone keeps up their place. On the other hand I'd rather have 
some more acreage for more projects to hide on and a barn to work in. 
Privacy and room for the kids and critters to run. Room for our Westy 
and Beetle plus a double cab (any year), a Hebmueller replica and late 
40s/early50s Flxible Clipper bus.

Anyone got any good/bad old VW city codes stories? A Virginia Corvair 
acquaintance once related a story of a codes fellow climbing his fence 
and lifting a tarp over a car stored behind a garage out of sight. Got a 
citation for that car AND a car stored INSIDE a locked garage that 
wasn't licensed and insured.  Acquaintance chased him off the property 
with a shotgun. Police came, heard the story and wrote the codes 
inspector up for trespassing.

Chris in TN
'78 Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted, up on jackstands in the garage 
getting some love again)
'65 Beetle 2.0L (in a million pieces)
'97 VW Cabrio Highline (daily driver, getting a new but used interior)
'99 CR-V EX AWD (206K miles)
Brenderup 1205S
