From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'type2list'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 12 Oct 2010 14:29:01 -0400
Subject: Transporterfest

Just a short report on the Transporterfest this past weekend. It was held in
Brookline, MA.

 

It was quite a show-lucky for me it is a short ride from my house. I believe
there were aver 140 VW's registered. It is a bit overwhelming..

 

My wife enjoyed the show too, she had an meeting early Sunday before the
show, but as she was coming back home she passed three buses on the way to
the show. She came shouting in the driveway, "I just saw three buses, let's
get going, come on hurry up!" I loved her enthusiasm.I was sitting at home
waiting for her return ;)

 

I met a few new folks, and a few I had met before. I got some unsolicited
advice on my transmission from a guy named Dave(forgot to ask his last
name). I knew there was something funky about the way my engine was
attached-the rear hanger bar-and he explained that, and also gave me a
mini-lesson on transmissions. It was great, admittedly a bit of it was over
my head, but that is how all this VW stuff starts with me. Eventually I will
start to understand. After digesting his advice a bit more, I'll be sure to
be posting questions asking for clarifications. 

 

There were some really nice bugs there as well. The weather was great, the
only bummer-I brought my camera, but forgot to put a memory card in it, so I
couldn't take any pictures.

 

Back to the winning-there was a raffle, and even though I only bought 6
tickets, I won 3 times. It seemed like the tickets were not getting stirred
up enough, because the folks that won-seemed to win multiple times. Maybe
there were only a few folks buying tickets. By the third time I went up, I
felt bad-and let my friend pick something out instead of me.

 

I think my favorite part of these shows, is seeing different ways things are
put together-either originally, or as modified by their owners. It also
allows me to see in real life, instead of just pics on the internet, how
things go together. 

 

Next year I hope to be able to go to the campout the night before, and bring
my camera so I can document things.

 

-Kevin

Jamaica Plain, MA

'69 single cab

'65 Kombi
