Date: Wed, 13 Oct 2010 10:20:52 -0400
From: Mike Benthin <muts(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Testament to stability of the bus- slow leak adventure

    We left Sun for a "leaf peeper" trip to NH in the 78 Camper, minus 
the pod I took off the top to see if the bad milage of 16 could be 
improved since I had an engine overhaul 10k ago and built a new slightly 
taller pod.  Before the overhaul, the 250,000 mi original engine got 22 
at least doing about 55 mph with a pod on top. . As an omen that 
morning, I left the bus idling to warm up on the  steep driveway by the 
side of our house.  The parking brake failed, and it rolled, missing any 
trees or fence posts and the front ran into a large briar bush that 
slowed it gently -there was only some scratching on the bumper and a 
branch hole in the tire cover.  The tires seemed fine, and no sign of 
anything in the treads.
      The milage did improve to 19, but I still think it is running rich.
We drove to Boston and then Lake Ossipee, NH to spend the night at a 
campground.  Then we went down rt 112, the 30 mi Kakamungus Highway 
famous for the scenery from the road; the colors were great.  I decided 
not stop  as the lookouts were very crowded and we wanted to get to the 
Shaker Village about 2 hrs south.  The speed was around 40 mpoh tops.  I 
noticed nothing until this strange rubbing sound in the front left that 
coincided with the wheel rpms.  There was no steering instability or 
"plop-plop" noise.  I pulled off at next parking area (along road edge), 
looked out and was shocked to see the tire was flat and the noise must 
have been the side bulge rubbing somewhere.  I changed it, and could 
find no reason for the flat, so I pumped it up to see if it was a slow 
leak and it pumped up fine.  WTF?  Then as a lark I pushed on the valve, 
and air rushed out of a crack in the rubber that looked to be half way 
around right by the rim.   I tied a string between the valve tip and 2 
holes in the rim, which pulled the crack closed, that added lots of 
orange silicone sealer and made it the spare.  Apparently a branch of 
the briar pushed on it to crack it, and it snapped back holding air?  I 
even checked the air before leaving and 30 mi later, and it seemed fine! 
  Perhaps the crack grew on the bumpy roads of Boston?  It's the sloppy 
fairies looking over us again- letting bad things occur, but making sure 
it's not fatal!
