From: "Jamie" <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: "Type2List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 14 Oct 2010 17:02:31 -0400
Subject: [T2] Re: type2 conversion to doghouse

well,, Mark D has an interesting method that is pretty cheap, reliable,
kinda rural.. lol
I thought he would have chimed in by now.. he suggests a truck innertube cut
and fastened between the T1 engine tin, and the T4 body tin ,, fills the gap
nicely, very flexible...   I thought it was ingenious!

years before I met Mark.... I put a stock 1600 DP in a 74 Sportsmobile
Camper with the Penthouse pop top.  Myself and a local needed the tin
altered,, so I made up some flat metal pieces that ended up resembling the
beetle edge on the engine side, and screwed to the body ... this allowed me
to use the factory rubber seal from a beetle.

Just make sure if you install a Doghouse cooler, that the exhaust for it is
outside the engine bay

As for the rear hanger bar,, I put an angle in the middle so that it held a
flexible hockey puck under the oil pump area of the engine case ,, it was
just a place to hold up a little of the rear engine weight,, and allow it to
flex as well..

worked very well for me.  and I have seen others done that way too... there
is a fellow in town that tows a 15' boat behind his Westfalia with a T1
1600cc engine powered and he never bothered to put seal in for years.. but
as he says.. "finally got fed up with people telling me ... overheating etc
etc... so I put a seal in."    ,, he has had a lot of fun driving his bus !

Jamie Rivers



----- Original Message ----- 

> I would think that a healthy 1776 or 2110 engine in a bus would be plenty
of
> type 1 power to do the trick.  Indeed, the european shroud conversion is
the
> clincher.
> Eron
>
> The 1600 was standard on european market busses but not here in the US...
>  The other issue is power (or lack
> thereof) - I've been told on a loaf and esp a westy the weight makes them
a
> very slow & gutless beast, esp on hills. Even so, I was still
considering it
> as it wuold be easier (and cheaper) to rebuild, repair, or replace than
the
> 2L, and would have done away with the recurring valve seat droppage that
kept
> eating motors (and eventually caused me to sadly sell her).
