Date: Thu, 14 Oct 2010 22:54:39 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: new question about timing

On 10/14/2010 5:33 PM, Christophe Guilbert wrote:
> While displacing the notch to 5 ATDC , I had to accelerate in order to
> maintain the rpm around 900. When I release the accelerator the engine
> drop his rpm to idle around 700-800.
> so yes the engine has the proper timing (5 ATDC) (-at-) 900 RPM) but the idle
> is lower than 900RPM (750RPM) now

When you advance the timing, the engine speeds up - when you retard the 
timing, it slows down.  So, set you're timing and then adjust for proper 
idle.

The key thing is making sure the idle doesn't get so high as to start to 
engage the mechanical advance mechanism, which will advance the timing 
at a certain RPM (somewhere around 1600), and subsequently speed the 
engine up.

If you didn't already know this, you speed an engine up by feeding it 
more air and fuel and also by advancing the timing.  That's why they 
have the vacuum advance (which advances the timing when you crack the 
throttle open), and also the mechanical advance to further advance the 
timing.  Timing is also advanced to ignite the fuel sooner at higher 
RPMs and so even moreso at cruise because leaner mixtures burn more slowly.

Now, back to idle - let's say you're timing was way retarded and you set 
your idle to 900 and then adjusted your timing.  Your idle RPM is going 
to increase - if it speeds up so much as to engage the mechanical 
advance, the timing will advance as well.  You will then have to adjust 
the idle again, then readjust your timing one more time so that you 
weren't adjusting the timing while the mechanical advance was kicking 
in.  Then do a final adjustment of the idle, recheck the timing (which 
should be good), and you're set to go.

The same goes for the vacuum advance - that's why they have you 
disconnect the vacuum line.  That said, you shouldn't be getting much, 
if any, vacuum on that line at idle, but they have you disconnect it 
just in case.  You should only have significant advance from the vacuum 
advance right when you crack the throttle open, and then full vacuum 
advance at light cruise.  You will have progressively more vacuum 
advance as you let up the pedal from full throttle towards light cruise, 
at which point you may end up with full mechanical and full vacuum advance.

A good test is to also double check your mechanical advance mechanism 
and make sure that it isn't advancing any farther than it should.  If 
you look at your specs for your engine/distributor, you can tell what 
the total mechanical advance should be.  Then try revving your engine 
(with the vacuum advance disconnected) and verify that your reading 
matches the spec.  The general rule of thumb is that you shouldn't go 
above 32 mechanical and 43 mechanical/vacuum.  This is for a late bay.. 
not sure about other engines...

Probably more than you ever wanted to know, but now you know :)

Mike
