From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 05 Oct 2005 18:44:52 +0000
Subject: re: shipping between USA and Europe - Opportune Lift!

Sorry for such a long post, but I wanted to hear the crying  ! ! !

""'Opportune Lift' gives goods a hitch stateside

By Scott Schonauer, Stars and Stripes
European edition, Monday, May 17, 2004

Scott Schonauer / S&S
A 1972 Mini with racing stripes sits on the deck of the USNS Patuxent at 
Naval Station Rota, Spain on Thursday. The oiler is transporting personal 
cars, a plane and household goods as part of "Opportune Lift," a 
little-known program in which eligible personnel overseas can transport good 
on Navy ships on a space-available basis.

Scott Schonauer / S&S
Willie Wiggins, a civilian seaman aboard the USNS Patuxent, straps a Mini to 
the deck of the ship. The oiler is transporting personal cars, a plane and 
household goods as part of "Opportune Lift," a little-known program in which 
eligible personnel overseas can transport good on Navy ships on a 
space-available basis.

NAVAL STATION ROTA, Spain  With a minivan, several Minis and a sleek BMW 
parked on deck, the USNS Patuxent looked like a floating used car 
dealership.

But none of these cars are for sale. At least, not yet. They are personal 
vehicles just hitching a ride on the Navy oiler.

The haul is part of a little-known military program called Opportune Lift 
which allows servicemembers to move personal vehicles, boats, motorcycles 
and household goods on Navy ships if there is space available.

The 678-foot Patuxent, which is in Rota after escorting a pair of patrol 
boats across the Atlantic Ocean, had plenty of room for the extra cargo for 
the trip back to its homeport of Norfolk, Va.

This is an easy load, said Craig Upton, a merchant marine who serves as 
the ships captain. They cant possibly fill us up.

The program is a bargain if the customer isnt in a hurry to receive his car 
or boat. Some people can wait as long as a year before their property 
arrives at its destination because the items carry the lowest shipping 
priority.

It costs $150 for vehicles weighing less than 4,000 pounds and $250 for 
anything heavier. However, moving vehicles commercially can cost hundreds or 
even thousands of dollars more, said Navy Chief Petty Officer Concepcion 
Banda, the naval stations fleet support officer.

Most people send their second or third car, or use the benefit to move 
household goods they couldnt fit under their limit.

One person sent a single-engine Cessna aircraft. Another customer sent a 
crate full of Spanish tiles.""

* * * * * * * *

Opportune Lift is good for retired military!!  It is still alive and well.  
When I retired I did an Opportune Lift from Japan to Korea, they took a 
shipping container of about 8' x 8' x 4', and a motorcycle on a pallet.  I 
'got' the shipping container (plywood sheets on a frame) from the 
dockmaster, and a pallet.  I just brought my household / clothing goods to 
the container and filled it up.  I pushed the motorcycle some 2 miles to the 
dock and had it strapped to the pallet.

It cost about $135 from Yokoska to Pusan, and I was only charged for the 
lift fee; the cost to rent the crane to load the box and MC on the ship.  It 
took a few weeks, but it made it.

Barry sends

Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.
