Date: Wed, 05 Oct 2005 17:04:15 -0400
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: re: shipping between USA and Europe - Opportune Lift!

>From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
>Scott Schonauer / S&S
>A 1972 Mini with racing stripes sits on the deck of the USNS Patuxent at
>Naval Station Rota, Spain on Thursday. The oiler is transporting personal
>cars, a plane and household goods as part of "Opportune Lift," a
>little-known program in which eligible personnel overseas can transport good
>on Navy ships on a space-available basis.

I lived in Rota for my first three years of highschool. (Go Admirals!) My 
Dad shipped my '71 bus over there and back again, figuring that it was a 
great car to take to Europe as the parts are available everywhere and it 
would haul the whole family anywhere without sticking out like a sore 
thumb. That bus has been all over southern Spain, Portugal, Morocco without 
missing a beat.

I even worked on the docks a little later as a summer job, loading and 
unloading personal affects. Most of the time the US family would import 
their big Buick Continental or Camaro, then whenever you parked it 
somewhere you had to pay the Spanish kids not to steal the hubcaps off of 
it. A bus was too common. By the end of the tour most of them bought 
Mercedes or BMWs and shipped them home instead.

One time we had a Coachman mini-motorhome that the guy had stuffed with 
personal junk. You were supposed to have emptied out the car to the bare 
essentials, but the origin shipper had not checked. It was so heavy and 
lopsided that it almost fell off the sling platform that we used to do the 
lift off. Most of the cars were transported inside a shipping container, 
but we had deck mounts too. They were never good. See, what would happen is 
that the sailors would hide out inside the car to stay warm on a deck watch 
or just hide from the chief. You would find food, clothes, cig butts, 
pornos, all kinds of junk in the cars, and of course the owners would come 
yell at us, like we did it.

Get a good long cruise, like a car coming from Texas or the west coast 
(rare) and by the time we got it the salt on it was so thick sometimes that 
you had to knock it off to get the door open. No rain on a crossing would 
cause that. We usually hosed it off for the folks unless they were right 
there when it came in.
