Date: Thu, 6 Oct 2005 10:17:39 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Cc: type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Best Way to Restore Wheels

<Technically, Chris, you're right. But it's interesting that we in the 
baywindow community would mention powdercoating as an answer to a 
question about the "best way to restore" ....

Elsewhere in the classic and vintage car world, powdercoating a wheel 
would be the antithesis of restoring it!>

Your vocabulary just exceeded my maximum weekly intake of new words... Had to look that one up! Blame it on Linux - been learning too much about that this week... <griN!> 

Paint is fine but I chose powdercoating for it's supposedly surperior technology - and the price was right (16 wheels coated for $40). I understand the concept of the vintage folks who want everything to be just like it was new and and accurate - I know folks who debate how to replicate the assembly line quality control chalk marks on the chassis or firewall! I subscribe to the idea that what can be improved without changing the style too much is fair game. I know some vintage car folks (Corvair and Mustang specifically) that debate the idea of using a dual circuit master cylinder when the single circuit was stock. I've had those single circuit designs fail - twice. I've overheated drum brakes a few times to the point where I had no brakes (Italian AutoStrada - 120 kph to 0 hard multiple times in a very short time)...

I guess the big difference between me and them is I seek functional upgrades to go along with the cosmetic rennovation. Not to say I'd install gullwing doors if they promised to be an upgrade but I always consider safety upgrades - brakes/tires/belts/lighting/etc. Of course the powdercoating is not a safety thing, but they are still pretty now 5 years later - though one of my spare wheels shows some chipping along the edges.

Some folks want their car to be accurate, I want it to be functionally better than stock if possible. 

Nah, nothing to get bent out of shape over - sort of like debating Ford vs Chevy, Fiat vs Citroen, politics, or religion. <griN!> 

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
Cookeville
