Date: Thu, 6 Oct 2005 17:14:39 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, Mark Hineline
Cc: type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Best Way to Restore Wheels

<Some powder coaters don't give you a lot of choice of wheel color either so be sure to look around. Also, the 16 rims for $40 powercoating estimate is such an incredible bargain I wonder if the same deal could be had years after that original cost? Either way rates, minimums and costs vary from city to city. There is no way I can even powdercoat one rim for $40 where I live.>

Extra cost if they had to order a color they did not have. I recall the cost was pretty much their cost, little markup for the powder. Of course I suppose they had a new color to offer then. Jan (owner) said they would powdercoat (within reason) whatever they could do in an hour at $40. That was 5 years ago. I brought them the wheels (Beetle gas tank, 2 sets of Corvair tin, 1 set of VW Type IV tin, propane tank, etc etc) all sandblasted and prepped. They ran it all through the oven to bake off any oil from my hands. Then they powdered everything, back through the oven to cure the powder, and then stacked it all on a pallet and wrapped it for me. Of course then I had to take it all off of the pallet to get it into the car... <griN!>

Additional cost for shipping, colors, clear coats (x2 normal cost), etc etc. 

Cost was based on 1 color because any color switching required cleaning of the equipment and that constituted a new hour. No cost for the cleanup but if I had 3 wheels done in white and then 3 more in black it would be $40 plus $40 ($40 was there minimum cost) = $80 for those 6 wheels. 

www.cookevillemetal.com 

Shabby looking industrial place but I was happy with their work. 

Remember the cost of the sandblasting was additional through a local monument company. Can't remember the cost but it was done on "standby" - their convenience. Took a week of wait time. Prob another $40 so figure about $5 a wheel blasted and coated. 

Planning to do my little utility trailer next sometime soon and my Beetle chassis too. First want to narrow the front beam a bit so I can do it too (dropped spindles added 1" to wheel track and my used Porsche Cookie Cutter rims will add additional unknown width I have to figure out). 

Maybe you guys can use them on mail order?

Issues you mentioned: some of my spare wheels have chipped along the edge from roughly handling and repeatly being stacked without cardboard between them - my fault. Can repair with a brush and be invisible. Lug nuts: yes I agree. My Honda CR-V ('99) came with no paint or powder on the hub or the rim where the rim presses. Dunno about the lug nut holes. I think you are spot on about the lugs needing some attention for a while. Paint is 1-2 mils thick, powdercoating is 3-4 mils thick. My tire store and I had an agreement about the wheels before the wheels went on the tire machine. They were very careful with all 12 of them with no damage, 2 different stores. 

Have had a bit of rust creep out between the center of the wheel and the outer edge. Was siggested to me by a Type II member that I cover it with white latex acrylic caulking - thin line of it. Discoloration rubs off with my finger. 

Hope this helps someone out there. Not a bad way to go. 

Chris
Cookeville, TN
'78 Westy 2,7L
