Date: Thu, 6 Oct 2005 17:27:17 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Mark Hineline <hineline(-at-)ocotillofield.net>
Cc: type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Best Way to Restore Wheels

<I'm not sure what to call what we do with out buses. Rehabilitate? 
Refurbish (sounds kind of Brit)? I dunno.>

Your separation of restore from what most of us seem to do was lost on me at first. Restore and what I do are pretty much the same to me but I'm not going back stock antique (yet). 

Rennovate or refurbish - to return to good service condition, not necessarily to prepare it for the Hershey Antique show in Hershey, PA unless you intend to drive you VW to it and camp out for a few days while you pour over the swap meet looking for parts that fit your '36 Ford Roadster (love to have one...)

Is it a question of our vehicle's age? A 70's vintage vehicle is just old, not vintage yet for alot of people to restore? Maybe it has something to do with how many people are at a stage in their life where they are reminicing about their teenage or childhood years. Dunno. Maybe we are just at the "those are pretty cool" and not yet at the "my Mom and Dad used to have one of those and I wish they never sold it so I'm going to buy one to play with"... 

Maybe our VWs are destined to fall into that category of cars that no one restore but just keeps driving. Watch Turner Classic Movies sometime, when you see a 40's or 50's traffic scene notice how many cars you recognize because they are popular, always restored and found at car shows and how many have virtually disappeared and seldom seen anywhere - taxis are one that comes to mind - those got used up and then tossed. Maybe our Westies are those cars unfortunately. Maybe, 70's cars just aren't going to be interesting to anyone but a few of us. When I was a kid going to hot rod shows and antique car shows (still go to both types) I wondered if Mom's Chevy Citation would ever have any appeal to a car collector. Not her's despite the fact that it was reliable and frugal to purchase and drive for 150K+ miles. A few of them like the X-11 sport model might survive but most are used up and crushed. An appliance... 

However when the casual person saw our Westy they were facinated by it's features. Had no idea of how much it offered. All they knew were the negative stereotypes. Slow. Cold. Expensive. Hard to work on. Dangerous. Same as a Corvair... 

Chris
Cookeville
