From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Robert Aldrich" <baldric(-at-)earthlink.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 13 Aug 2006 08:17:04 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] No pulse at injector in '77 EFI

I see no mention of the resister pack.  I would start there [above the double relay].

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Robert Aldrich"

 I recently became the owner of a '77 Westy that was rebuilt, but the
 re-builder died before he could finish the job.  The engine is in the
 bus and cranks, and all double-relay readings are correct, the engine
 sometimes runs momentarily (probably due to cold-start injector doing
 it's job) but the engine doesn't continue to run longer than the initial
 burst. There is fresh fuel and a spark and the timing seems to be
 correct according to a timing light check. No smell of fuel from the
 exhaust.

 I've isolated that the injectors are not being grounded (pulsed) by the
 ECU and so replaced both the ECU and the matching AFM from my running '76 Westy. But alas, again, only a
momentary start but then doesn't run and no triggering (grounding) of the injectors. I realize the harness
 may not match these two items as I didn't change that, but suspect there
is no real change in that.

 I've checked the ground wires and all plugs from the ECU are properly
 plugged in. (there is fuel pressure) The factory manual says (at the
 stage I've gotten to in this) to replace the ECU but don't have that
 exact number, and an ECU from a '75 bus worked in my '76 so I figured
 what the heck, try the '76 in the '77 and see what happens. Nothing
 different. It starts momentarily but then quits probably due to only the
 cold-start injector doing it's job.

 Any idea what may be wrong? Temp sensors not in range?

 I have to drive this bus out of the driveway where it is soon because
 the owner of the house (an 85 year-old man) can't insure it until all
 non-working cars and ages of debris are removed from his property. I've
 got till next weekend but really he wants it out of there NOW.
