Date: Sun, 13 Aug 2006 16:25:03 -0500
From: okartguy <okartguy(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Tony Moore" <tony-moore(-at-)juno.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Camper Quest Q's

> 1) Dependable first and foremost. I've already had my share of restoring, and
> will be paying
> for most maintenance, so the availability of work and parts is important.
> 2) Sleeping - we'd like the top bunk to sleep both our daughters.
> 3) Front swivel seats - so we have room for all 4 of us to hang out if it
> rains.
> 4) Fridge and stove - really last in the list and not absolutely necessary.
>
> So, from a bit of research, it seems a 78-79 Westy is our best choice. Any
> older models
> have the above?

We had basically identical criteria when we began looking about a year
and a half ago. Having owned several Vanagons and one previous
baywindow, one added list item for me was a 2.0L with factory fuel
injection and hydraulic lifters. I set my sites on finding a '79,
basically because it was the final culmination of all the things we
were looking for

So, I began canvassing theSamba daily, waiting for the right
combination to show up. Finally, one morning, I found what I was
looking for. A '79 Westy pop-top with 77k original miles and records
from new. It was a Texas bus that had been transplanted to Wisconsin,
but had only accrued 3k summer miles during its 5-year sojourn there.
Not a spot of rust to be found, and the price was right. Our camper
doesn't have the stove or propane 'fridge, but we decided that the
Westy cooler would serve well, and do you *really* want to cook inside
your car?

I had a long conversation with the owner, sealed the deal by phone and
put a deposit in the mail that same morning. The only thing left was
to figure out when I was going to get up to Madison and drive the bus
back to Oklahoma!

Anyway, to make a long story more to the point, I paid $5k for a
mostly pristine, well-maintained bus with lots of maintenance
reciepts. I see similar setups going for more money (and often in much
worse condition), so I think I got a pretty good deal. The only caveat
is that an area of the drivers side of my bus was damaged (and fixed
poorly) at some point early in the bus's life, but it's not very
noiceable and I wasn't looking for a show car. The upside is that I've
driven the bus almost daily since I drove her home, and have done
little beyond change the oil and polish the hubcaps. It runs like a
TOP, will cruise the highway at 70-75 with no problems, and gets
22-25mpg.

FWIW, if you're looking for something you don't have to jack with
constantly, a late FI bay is the way to go. Just do your homework, and
decide how far you're willing to go to bring the right one home! Good
luck-

JJ
OKC
