From: "baywindowbus.com" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
To: "James Jackson" <firesong4ng(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 14 Aug 2006 14:19:54 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] replacing windows and question

I believe I am going to exchange the windows from my
> 78' to my 74' westie.  All in perfect shape (glass) and
> are all tinted really nice.
>
> Everything is interchangable right? I am going to leave the
> middle vent windows where they are though.
> How easy is it to pop them out? (More a question for the
> rear hatch glass and the rear sides.)



All of the glass in interchangeable for the baywindow years, '68-'79. You 
won't have a problem. discovered earlier this year that you can save the 
seals and reuse them if they are in good shape. You will need (in my case 
anyway) about 10 screwdrivers. I started on the side and worked to the top 
of the window. Gently start unseating the lip of the seal, prying it under 
the metal that retains it, from the inside of the bus and leave the 
screwdriver there. Grab another and slide it in and continue to unseat the 
seal. Once you get about 1/2 or so of the seal out the window will pull away 
and out pretty easy. Just be careful to have a helper so the window doesn't 
fall out and shatter. You don't have to apply much pressure at all.

If you aren't saving the seals take a razor on the outside of the bus and go 
around the perimiter of the window, cutting away the part of the seal closer 
to the center of the window. You can pull the seal off in long strips if you 
go slow. Once you have cut away enough of the seal the glass will ease out. 
Just don't take a screwdriver and pry it out as it will chip the glass.

Jalousies are easy. They have a bunch of little screws on the inside of the 
window...unscrew them and pull the jalousie out with a helper outside the 
bus to catch the window just in case.

Small vent windows are tougher, but do come out. Cut the larger window out 
or use the screwdriver method mentioned above. The vent comes out with the 
glass as a unit. Slide it (or gently tap it with a rubber mallet) toward the 
cavity where the larger window used to be and it will come out.

Now is a good time to fix any rust that may be in the window cavaties or 
spraying paint if you so desire.

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com
