From: "Buddah VW" <buddahvw(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 11 May 2004 21:01:20 -0400
Subject: High Country Bus Festival 8

the time has come to start making your plan to attend the 8th annual High 
Country Bus Festival!  Over the years HCBF has grown beyond my wildest 
expectations into one of the largest campout on the East Coast.  Last year 
over 190 buses climbed that old mountain to spend a weekend of cool breezes, 
cool busses and great friends.

DATES for this year:   JULY 30, 31 and AUGUST 1st - 2004
same location as always:  Grandfather Mountain Campground,  near Boone, NC.

We have a NEW webpage this year.  This is entirly due to the efforts of Rob 
Henly - thanks Rob for all the work on the new site.   Here is the new link 
-
http://www.baywindowbus.com/highcountry8.htm

Full HCBF 8 info/directions ect are available on the website.

I have not gotten the final schedule of events set yet -  that full schedule 
will be posted later.

One Important Event though,  we have finally managed to get Blistered Dawson 
re-booked for HCBF this year.........so get ready for the return of the VW 
FAMILY FEUD!   I will be posting the survey to the list soon the get all of 
the answers for the game.

One thing has changed this year.  After many hours of contemplation I have 
come the decision that HCBF can no longer operate as a free event - it has 
simply grown to large and takes a lot of resources.  In the past I have 
never charged any addmission.  Campers paid $5 per night direct to the 
campground - the HCBF "fund" never saw any of that money.  In the past 
loosing about a hundred or so bucks was not that big of a deal - I never 
started HCBF to make a penny.  However as the event has grown - I have added 
a lot of events;  bands, airplanes, ect.  Last year my looses were about 
equal to a mortgage payment - and as much fun as last year was....I just 
can't go on like this and produce the quality and fun event that HCBF has 
become.

Starting this year we will no longer be asking for donations to cover these 
extra expenses.  There will be a $5 "activity fee" per bus / once for the 
entire weekend.  Overall, this will only add $5 to the total cost of your 
HCBF trip.  This money will be paid at the office when you check in and pay 
the camping fees.

As stated before, I have no desire to make any money off of HCBF.  Any extra 
money out of this activity fund that is not spent on HCBF activities will be 
donated;  split equally between the Type 2 list and the Full Moon Bus Club.

One thing that hasn't changed:  T-shirt orders will be handled on an 
advanced order basis.  There will not be extra shirts available at the event 
- so if you want yours, be sure to get your order in by the deadline:  JULY 
1 -2004.   (please note my address changed this year)
order form:  http://www.baywindowbus.com/hcorderform.htm

Well, that's about it for now.  As always, email me with any questions.  I 
am so excited about this years event and the return of the VW FAMILY FUED.  
Hope to see all of you at Natural Bus and Full Moon in June before HCBF 8 - 
2004.

thanks,
buddah
