Date: Wed, 12 May 2004 11:34:55 -0500
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Talk me out of giving up :(

Oh dear me...

Been receiving the digest off and on - so I'm a bit late on this.  And
then Don wroted:

"...Aside from the REALLY sloppy steering and some backfiring it ran ok.
Did 60 all the way home, no problem."

Brother Don - the sloppy steering is a normal PO installed and dealer
available M-code deal :-)  REALLY sloppy steering takes some
extra-speshul neglect.  If you're inclined, I'm sure that Vincent M. can
look up the M numbers for us...

I am SO jealous - you were able to do 60 from H'wood to Anaheim!!!  When
I bought my '72 Weekender in West L.A. (a mere snip at $900), it took me
the better part of an hour on surface streets to get it from W.L.A. to
Hawthorne where it overnighted, and then 2.5 hours from Hawthorne to
Glendale on surface streets.  Running on 3 cylinders, 1.7L, leaking like
a punctured single-hulled oil tanker, 0 to 40 (max speed) in 2.74
decades...  You know, typical Splittie velocities ;-)

Take a big deep breath, take a walk around the block, step AWAY from the
gas can, wait 'til the weekend when you feel better and your heart fills
with blood for the bus, and go to the restoration work!  Since you're so
close, I'll put in a shameless plug for The VW Classic, Sunday June 13,
2004, over in Irvine, CA.  Bring the bus, stop on by, pick up a "Save
The Bays!" sticker from us...

Jim Hayden
'72 Weekender w/2260 T4 (0-40 in second gear now)
www.savethebays.org



E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
