Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Wed, 12 May 2004 11:23:10 -0700
To: "Don Tuleja" <durocshark(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Talk me out of giving up :(

On May 11, 2004, at 7:45 PM, Don Tuleja wrote:

> Ok, I paid way too much for this basket case. $700 and $200 in 
> registration. See pics at the link in my sig.

S'ok, don't give up...

I bought my '76 in August 2003 ... I won't way what I paid for it 
(though I will say that it was a lot more than $700), but I discovered 
later that I paid too much.  Why?  Because shortly there after, I came 
to realize that an engine rebuild was needed.

Before the rebuild, I spent many weeks dealing with random problems ... 
vacuum leaks, electrical issues, etc.

At least a few times I can remember thinking "Maybe this was a mistake."

But I stuck with it, invested the required $$, and now I have a camper 
that runs like a top, and is just a joy to drive.  My face gets tired 
from smiling whenever I drive it.  It was roughly 6 months before I was 
able to take a trip in it, but boy oh boy was that trip ever a blast.

Now, I know that my Bus still needs work... transmission will require a 
rebuild in a couple of years (it's whiney now, though not quite as bad 
as it used to be since changing the gear oil with Redline MT-90), and 
the body needs some dings fixed, surface rust dealt with, a new sill 
for the windshield, and paint.  Pop-top could use some TLC (zippers 
need to be re-sewn, and 2 small tears should be patched) and new seals.

But even though I know I have all this work ahead of me, all I have to 
do is remember how fun it is to drive, how much fun friends have when 
they go on trips in it with us, or how amusing it is when my wife and I 
get dressed up for a nice dinner out and then drive the Bus to the 
restaurant (it's a real kick looking back at the parking lot ... Audi, 
Mercedes, BMW, green+primer VW Bus, Acura, Lexus, ... :-)  Amazing how 
intimidating a Bus is to a valet ... good thing they usually make me 
park it myself, too... I'm pretty picky about who gets to drive it, and 
I'm not sure I'd want the valet learning how to drive a Bus with *my* 
Bus :-)

Anyway, just hang in there... eventually you will get it running well, 
and then you too will be able to experience the happy feeling we all 
get when we drive our Busses around.

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
