From: "Tom Shinn" <turtlebus(-at-)msn.com>
To: "Type2" <Type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 May 2005 15:24:37 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake trouble-progress but still need help

Ok folks, I figured it out. The adjustment at least. when looking in the
adjustment hole, the cogs on the star adjustment wheel should be moving up
to tighten the brakes and down to loosen them.

I tightened them until I couldn't turn the drum then backed off the
adjustment till the brake shoes just let go of the drum. Turned the drum and
listened for the shoes dragging on the drum. Then pressed the pedal a few
times. Turned the drum again to listen for dragging shoes. If the sound went
away entirely, I would adjust again. I think pressing the pedal centers the
shoes in the drum and allows the drum to turn more freely if they are not
tight enough. I now have them adjusted so I can hear the faintest dragging
between the shoes and drums but can't feel any resistance caused by the
shoes dragging.

I hope that the correct procedure. It seems to have raised my pedal height
so I'm happy, I think. Need to take it for a ride and see if it makes a
difference in stopping distance. Considering the number of revolutions I had
to turn the adjusters I don't think the rear brakes were helping at all!

I suppose The brakes will be ok like this for a while but I will still need 
to get the drums off the hubs in the future. I have been through the 
archives on this subject and found many suggestions. I'm considering trying 
the one where you remove the 2 bolts that hold the drum on the hub, 
releiving some of the torque from the lug nuts and driving around the block 
slowly, and pegging the brake pedal a few times.

Questions
1. Does this really work?
2. Is there a better way?
3. Is it better to remove the drum and hub as an assembly and have the drum 
pressed off  the hub?
4. Where can I buy a hub puller at a reasonable price? I see Harbor Freight 
has one but wonder if it will hold up to occasional use on a bus.

Tom
75 bus "Turtlebus"
80 Westy "as yet unnamed"
Bus-ted minds want to know


> Working on my brakes today and getting nowhere! I simply want to adjust my
> rear brakes on my 80 Vanagon. I have looked into the inspection hole and 
> the
> linings look sufficient. I tried turning the star adjuster to tighten the
> shoes but it either wouldn't turn or I couldn't get the right angle with 
> my
> tool with the tire on. I thought I would remove the drum from the hub and 
> lube
> the adjuster then try adjusting again. AAARG.  No good! the hub seems 
> rusted
> to the drum. 
