Date: Sun, 01 May 2005 21:06:54 -0400
From: La Famiglia Fischer <fis(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Update to "Crud in fuel tank...I need a miracle!"

Bonjour from Montreal!
First off, many thanks to all those who responded.
The information has been a great help.
Random thoughts:
I'll be getting some clear-bodied filters.
The present one IS positionned correctly.
Stange thing is that when I checked it while fuel delivery was restricted it seemed it was not blocked at all. I could blow right through it.
The small flow was the same, either side of the filter.
It's only when I back-blew some air up the line from the tank to the inlet side of the filter that I got full unrestricted flow.
As noted, my tank is standard and appropriate to my year model. NO removable outlet/ strainer.
And NO, I don't have a trap door arrangement over my fuel sender to attempt clean out there.
Does anyone know the exact nature of the architecture of that outlet point in the tank. 
Is there a section of tube going up into the tank? If so, how high? (Can't be much...) Is it covered by a screen? (logical Germans!) If so, is that screen fixed solidly enough to the tube such that my blowing through it won't dislodge  the screen?

In retrospect I am sure that there was something lying over/ covering/ obstructing that point at which the fuel exits that tank. Whatever it is/ was never got beyond that point and did its damage right there.

Some off-list people have suggested that my back-blowing most assuredly broke up whatever was choking the outlet...and that it would never happen again...Unfortunately I don't, at this point, share that optimistic perspective! All I can see is semis rushing up in my rear view mirror while my engine coughs and bucks...

In one of those hopefull-bordering-on-desperation moves I put in some Fuel System cleaner and a couple of gallons of fuel and went out for 20-odd miles. Ran perfectly...
It's been parked for the last 2 days to see if something settled back again. I'll give a whirl tomorrow AM.

I intend to try out one of the suggestions: repeated empty/fill cycles through the fuel return point, which, logically, should not be screened. (Right?)
If I find nothing, I'll then go the long route and pull the tank...

And yes, I still wonder at myself for using that old jerrycan withought ever even looking inside it. 
I will definitely carry an appropriate funnel/filter in the future!
And leave those rose-coloured glasses off!

Question: there was reference a while back to a fuel line clamp that was convenient. Anybody have the link?

Thanks again to all for your concern and help
Mitch
