Date: Mon, 2 May 2005 12:55:06 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: "MacArthur, Margaret" <Margaret.MacArthur(-at-)montgomerycountymd.gov>
Subject: Re: [T2] battery light glowing...

Meg,

See my yearly electrical rant from right before Christmas<grin>.

Seriously tho, go back thru and clean all grounds everywhere and 
retighten....especially the ones hidden up under the dash....oh, and the 
positive wires too.  Especially at the starter motor.  A dremel with a 
small wire brush attachment is great for this.  Then do the same for the 
fuse holder connections and then for your fuses....they get corroded 
easily.

Then look at the wiring diagram just for the alt light.
The wire from the bulb goes straight back to the terminal on top of the 
alternator(well, in a 77, it would be inside the alt).

The whole circuit works off of a sort of "differential" voltage principle.

One side of the bulb is connected to the positive feed at the instrument 
panel and the the other goes back to the alt.  When the voltages "seen" 
are different, the bulb turns on...the amount of differential it is seeing.

If the positive voltage at the front of the bus at the instrument cluster 
is not the same as what the alternator is putting out to the battery, then 
you get a dim light.

The bottom line is that the bulb is seeing a different voltage at the 
positive side at the front of the bus than it's single dedicated wire is 
seeing at the back of the bus where the juice is being generated.


Cheers, dave

-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Mon, 2 May 2005, MacArthur, Margaret wrote:

> Hi,
 
 I was wondering what others would check in this situation.....My
 battery/alternator light was slightly glowing and would pulse stronger
 with the turn signal. 

 headlights on, radio on and heat blower fan on but I never noticed this
> before. Well the next day checked the charging with a volt meter. I do
> have a battery isolator but would that be a problem? Anyway it showed it
> was charging the battery fine from alternator at the isolator to the
> battery. So I thought well okay. Then yesterday same thing we went

re getting home the battery/alternator
> light was slightly glowing again. We had the headlights on and the
> radio... Any thoughts on what to do or check? My bus is a 1977 FI
> Westy.
> 
> Meg
