From: <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 1 Jan 2006 0:18:55 -0500
Subject: Re: Gas Guage, Horn?

> From: "ashlynn matteson" <1matteson(-at-)earthlink.net>
> Date: Sat, 31 Dec 2005 19:22:31 -0500
> 
> First, with a new gas tank float (VDO) and brand new
> VDO guage, why does my gas guage always read full?

Probably a broken or missing ground wire from tank to
body, or an open wire from the sender to the gauge.

There should be a short ground wire that goes from the
sender flange to the body sheet metal.  If it's not
there, not hooked up, or looks dubious, install a new
one.  18 gauge wire is fine - stock was 0.55 mm^2.  If
you're not sure, arrange for the tank to be about half
full, and jump the sender flange to ground (like the
generator housing or pedestal) with a piece of wire
while an accomplice in the cab is watching the gauge
(key on).  If the gauge goes to about half, then you
need to install or replace the ground wire that's there.

Just for grins, check the power to the gauge.  The black
wire on the back of the gauge should have battery voltage
on it with the ignition on.  If that's OK, temporarily
unplug the brown wire on the back of the gauge, and jump
the gauge terminal that the brown wire was on _briefly_ to
ground (bare metal on the body).  If this makes the gauge
needle jump down towards R, then the gauge is working at
some level.  Put the brown wire back on the gauge, and
go to the back.  Unplug the brown wire from the sender
and jump it to ground _briefly_ while your accomplice
observes the gauge (key on) - if nothing happens then
the long brown wire from gauge to sender is broken
somewhere.

Another way to figure out if the long wire is broken is
to wire around it.  Unplug the brown wire at the gauge
and at the sender.  Get a long piece of insulated wire -
20 gauge or better is fine.  Put a push-on on one end,
plug it on to the sender, and then "somehow" route it
to the front of the Bus.  Out the engine vent and back
in the window is one option; under the Bus is another.
Just make sure it can't get caught on anything hot or
moving.  Run the other end into the cab and connect it
to the gauge terminal where the brown wire was.  Drive
around, and if your gauge now works, you know the long
brown wire is open - you can either chase it, or figure
out a way to make your temporary fix permanent.  (Out
the engine vent and back in the window is not a good
long-term solution.)

>  Secondly, my horn doesn't work, I replaced both the
> ground and power wire, have a brand new Bosch 12V horn
> and checked the wiring diagram to make sure everything
> was good there and still horn no worky.

DAMN IT!  That's it!  This is the last electrical question
I'm going to help with this year!

:)

Under the Bus, unplug the brown wire at the horn and leave
the other one (probably black/yellow) hooked up.  Jump the
terminal the brown wire was on to ground.  If that makes
the horn go, the power to the horn and the horn itself are
OK.  If not, the horn is bad or there's not battery voltage
on the black/yellow wire.  This wire should be hot all the
time, and is protected by the rightmost fuse in the fuse
box - fuse open?

If the horn sounded with that test, hook the brown wire
back up to the horn.  Go in the cab and pop the horn button
off the wheel.  Get a piece of wire and jump the end of
the wire sticking up out of the steering column to ground.
If that makes the horn blow, your horn button is probably
bad.  If not, the brown wire that runs through the steering
column is probably bad (open).

Good luck!

Happy New Year!

Matt Roberds
