Date: Mon, 2 Jan 2006 14:23:19 -0800 (PST)
From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: engine won't start

I live in Southern California.  We just had a hard
rain storm come through.  When I went out to start my
67 Westy, 1600DP, she kicked over a couple times then
refused to start.  This is a rebuilt engine with about
5000 miles on it and it's been running and starting
great with no cranking so I was really surprised when
it didn't start.  I immediately suspected the rain had
gotten something wet.  I visually checked the
electrical connections at the coil and the carb and
checked the inside of the distributor cap.  Everything
looked good.  No luck.  I checked for a spark at the
distributor high tension wire and it was present
although not real blue and strong.  I removed the coil
and found about 4 ohms between 1 and 15 and about 4k
between 1 and 4.  There is gas going through the carb
as I checked the float level and accelerator pump.  I
checked and readjusted the timing and cleaned the
distributor cap inside and out.  I tried starting it
again and this time I got some action on what sounded
like a couple cylinders so I pumped the throttle and
got it going.  After a bit of pumping it ran as
expected.  Normally when I start it first thing in the
morning I just put the gas pedal to the floor and let
up to set the auto choke and she takes right off.  I
have never had to pump the gas pedal to get it to
start.  So I drove around the block and warmed it up
and it runs fine.  I restarted it several times with
no problems.  Now I've lost confidence in the engine
starting dependably.  I've been reading up in my Muir
manual, the Clymer, and Bently manuals but I don't see
any reference to what caused this problem, a starting
problem that seemingly went away by itself.  I think
I'll replace the coil and capacitor and points.  Does
anyone have a similar experience or suggestions? 
Thanks a lot.  You know you just want that engine to
start right up every time, especially if the weather
is bad.

Have a good 2006 and may your engine start right off
every time :-)

John
67 Westy
Just $16.99/mo. or less. 
dsl.yahoo.com 
