Date: Tue, 3 Jan 2006 06:26:54 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Gas Guage, Horn?

> From: Mark Plunkett <mplunkett(-at-)austin.rr.com>
> Date: Mon, 2 Jan 2006 17:18:54 -0600
>
> I have the same situation. A new tank and new sender installed before
> I bought the bus. The sender is grounded to the body with a separate
> wire. Power to gage works. I ran a new wire from the sender to the
> gauge, outside the bus as suggested, and it still reads full when the
> key is on. R when key off, or sender wire disconnected.

Don't hit me, but you know the gas tank isn't actually full of gas, right?
OK, OK, I have to ask...

The splitty wiring diagrams show that the case of the gauge is grounded
to the body.  I'm pretty sure that this is just for the illumination
lamp in the gauge, but there's a chance it is part of the circuit.
Probably the easiest way to test this is to remove the power and sender
wires at the gauge and turn the parking lights on.  If the gauge lights
up, then the ground is probably OK.

You might also inspect the ground wire (use a strong light) to make sure
it's not broken, secure to the body and the body isn't corroded around
where the ground wire attaches.  You could get another piece of wire and
ground the sender flange to the battery ground while an accomplice watches
the gauge with the key on - if this makes the gauge work, the ground wire
is no good.  Or, leave the ground wire attached to the body but take it
off of the sender flange.  Turn on the key, clip your test/timing light
to the + wire on the coil (not the one that goes to the distributor),
and clip the other end of the light to the free end of the ground wire.
The light should come on.  Wiggle and flex the ground wire to make sure
the light doesn't flicker or go out - if it does, replace the ground
wire.  Limit the key-on time to a few minutes so you don't toast your
coil.

> If I back out the [sender] bolts, do I need to worry about anything?

Be careful of the gasket and don't drop the bolts in the tank.  I would
grab each bolt as it was removed and put it on the flat body metal by
the battery instead of leaving it on top of the tank.  Since the sender
only fits one way and it's hard to see, you might mark it in a way you
can feel - like a small piece of electrical tape on the sender, and
another small piece of tape next to it on the tank.

Matt Roberds
