Date: Tue, 3 Jan 2006 19:40:29 -0800 (PST)
From: John Moore <jem_93035(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "vintagebus(-at-)type2.com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re:  engine won't start

Hi all,

My previous post thanked you all for the help when my
engine wouldn't start after the rain storm and
concluded that I got the bus started by cleaning the
distributor but there is more to the story.  Read on
...

I worked on the bus some more today, partly because it
was running like crap and partly because I wanted to
further track down the starting problem.  I had a
short drive to the gym this morning and noticed a bit
of stumbling and a miss on the way.  It sat for an
hour or so and started right up for the trip home. 
But again I noticed a miss and it got worse as I
drove.  By the time I got home, it's only about 3
miles, the engine had a pronounced miss on
acceleration and didn't cruise very well.  And this is
after I cleaned out the distributor cap and retimed it
yesterday as well as replaced the coil.  As everything
was dry, it's bright and sunny again, I didn't have
the same kind of problem as yesterday where it
wouldn't fire.  As several responses pointed to the
high tension side of the ignition system I thought I'd
go through that system and see what I could find. 
Here's what I did.  I pulled the distributor and
installed new points and condenser, cleaned the
distributor cap inside and out, cleaned and sprayed
the spark plug cables with silicone and checked them
for obvious damage, and blew out the spark plug wells,
and lastly retimed the engine.  She started right up. 
I drove it around the block a few times and there was
no hesitation or miss.  It runs great again.  Now this
is where it gets good.  I had to drive to a dental
appointment in an hour, about 10 miles across town. 
She ran great all the way over there.  When I get out
of the dentist and go to start her up there was a
weird clicker with the generator light and then
nothing, no juice at all.  And I was in no mood for
this at all.  I went around back and checked the
obvious connections, ie., coil, battery, carb
connections and everything looked fine.  I get back in
and try it again and nothing.  Now this is different
than the hard starting thing, this is like the
ignition switch going out.  The starter is not even
turning.  The dash lights are not coming on, etc.  Now
my ignition switch has already failed and I made a
switch box with a switch for the ignition and a
momentary switch for the starter.  It just sits on the
tray under the dash.  So I pull it out for a look and
wouldn't you know it a couple of the spade connectors
had slipped off the back.  I hooked them up and she
fired right up and runs great again, if not better. 
Now this is what I'm thinking.  Were these loose
connections contributing to the hard starting problem
perhaps degrading the spark in the high tension
circuit.  So in conclusion, I think a couple things
caused the hard starting.  One, the ignition system
was dirty and when it got wet the high tension wires
got shorted to ground.  This may have happened at the
distributor, the spark plugs, or both.  The
distributor cap may have had moisture build up inside
due to the unusually warm temperature of the air
during the rain.  And two, the connections at the
ignition switch box were loose and may have caused a
low voltage to the coil degrading the spark to the
spark plugs thereby contributing to the problem of
moisture shorting the high tension system.  So those
were the things I did and the problem is completely
resolved to my satisfaction.  From now on I'll keep
things clean and adjusted.  My notes now read;  When
it won't start after a rain 1) clean and dry
everything off on the high tension side and 2) clean
and spray the electrical connections with water
displacing corrosion preventative like LPS.  3) check
the high tension side of the ignition system for
shorts or partial shorts to ground.  Please add any
steps you recommend.  Well, thanks again.  It's been a
pleasant learning experience.

John
67 Westy 
Just $16.99/mo. or less. 
dsl.yahoo.com 
