Date: Wed, 4 Jan 2006 20:05:19 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Gas Guage, Horn?

On Tue, 3 Jan 2006, ashlynn matteson wrote:
> I checked the power to the gauge (black wire on back of gauge connected
> to the + terminal) and I get 12.8V.

This is good.

> I unplugged the brown wire on back of gauge and gauge needle falls to R
> as it does when the black wire is removed.

Both good.

> I jumped the negative terminal with a spare wire with female ends and
> the gauge jumps to full.

If you jumped the negative terminal to ground, this is the correct
response from the gauge.

> Then I took the brown wire off of brand new VDO sender and grounded the
> wire to bare metal on the body and gauge jumps to full.

This is good.  If the gauge went to less than full when you pulled the
wire off of the sender, then the wire between the gauge and the sender
is very probably OK.

> Gauge gets power to lights without either the black or brown wire hooked
> up.

This is good.

> Now I know that the tank is not full but it does have about 7 or 8
> gallons in it.

Was this combination (new gauge and sender) working correctly before
now?  If not, maybe the new gauge is just a little optimistic.  You
might try getting another two or three gallons out of the tank, by
draining it or by driving, and checking again.  Or, unbolt the sender
from the tank, but leave the ground wire connected to the sender.  Lift
up the sender as far as you can get it.  Prop it up there with something
that won't fall into the tank and check the gauge yourself, or have an
accomplice check it while you hold up the sender.  If it still hasn't
moved from 1/1, then either the gauge or the sender isn't working.

Probably you did this, but the new sender might have had some tape or a
pin that has to be removed to free the float.  If this is still
installed, you could get the results you are getting.

If you have an old sender, you might connect it to the gauge and to
ground and see if you can make the gauge move with it.  Or, go to Radio
Shack and buy a 271-1720 5K audio taper potentiometer.  Unplug the wire
to the sender and hook up a jumper from the gauge sender terminal to
the middle lug on the pot.  Ground one of the outside lugs on the pot
and don't connect anything to the other lug.  You should be able to
make the gauge read whatever you want by twirling the shaft of the pot.
Most of the adjustment will happen at one end of the pot's range, and
if you find that the gauge tends to go quickly from R to 1/1 over a
very short rotation, move the pot ground to the other outside lug and
try it that way.  If you can't get the gauge to read anything other than
1/1 by doing this, then the gauge is probably bad.

Matt Roberds
