Date: Tue, 27 Aug 2002 12:48:18 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Littljessica(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] shaky, jerky bus...

Assuming that you are a very new mechanic and assumming your bus is 
suffering from the same neglect most of our busses were when we first got 
them - time to go get some reading materials. I would recommend the Bentley 
manual and John Muir's Idiot Manual (no disrespect intended).

You are going to have to inspect and adjust the carb, the ignition, valves 
and do a compression test. Inspect and adjust the clutch. I mention so 
manythings because so many things could cause these symptoms.

Believe me when I say that these materials will be MUCH cheaper than one 
trip to a mechanic.

>i have a 1970 campmoblie, and when i'm in a lower gear about to shift, the
>car sometimes starts shaking really bad.....it also backfires sometimes...i
>don't know how to fix either of these, so if anyone has an input it would be
>greatly appreciated..

Once you complete the tune up (may require no parts purchased) you will 
have a better understanding of what type of attention your bus requires to 
make it "right". Most of our busses are suffering from 30 years of neglect 
and abuse. There is probably a pile of missing engine parts and such (none 
of which is expensive but should be there).

Start looking at other busses the same age and learning what they have and 
you have and making a list of items missing that you need to locate. I 
would buy good used OEM parts versus the cheap chromed magazine parts if 
you are missing tin.

Ask do I have the right carb, do I have all the right tin, do I have all 
the right ignition parts? Etc.


Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


