Date: Wed, 28 Aug 2002 08:54:23 -0700
From: Jim Arnott <jrasite(-at-)eoni.com>
To: fubar(-at-)blueballweb.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Engine types in a camper.

Well...

I own a '77 ASI Camper, an '82 Vanagon Diesel Westy and an '83.5 
Wasserboxer GL.  Each has its quirks, but each has its good points as 
well.  From the top:

'77; best off-road traction.  leaks oil like the Exxon Valdez. COLD in 
the winter (it snows here). Lousy interior layout. Rock solid 
dependable. Gets driven the most of all in the stable. A Westy of the 
same vintage has a better interior layout.

'82 Stinkenklankencampenwagen; 30+ mpg. Westy interior is the best! 
Cheap, common parts. sssllllooooowwwwwwwww, you'll never get a speeding 
ticket. Did I mention slow? Motor will run underwater if necessary. Oh 
yeah, 50 hp makes it a tad on the lethargic side. Good easy candidate 
for a gas engine swap.

'83 Volksmover; Horsepower!  Comfort. Fairly dependable. Head reseal on 
one side at 148k miles. Now has 220k on it. Some cooling system parts 
are NLA. Weak point on wasserboxers is the cooling system.  Gotta keep 
the grounds clean and religously change coolant annually.

Some folks swear by each, some swear at each.  IMHO, the least desirable 
is the luftboxer Vanagon.  Most desirable? A Diesel Westy with a 1.9NA 
(naturally aspirated) motor. (We'll get there eventually...)

I'm an AIRS member and I, like many others, am here to help.  If you 
show up with an E-van, we might have some problems, but '51-'91 I can 
and will help with and the Eurovan we can find 'professional' help for....

Jim Arnott
List Admin
WetWesties
[...]



fubar wrote:
> I'm just starting to look for a camper.  I really need something
> with a big pop up, not like the smaller splitty pop ups I've seen.
> I also want reliability and repairability.  I'm familiar with the
> type I engines but not the type IV, I know even less about the
> waterboxers in the Vanagons.  I like the Vanagon interiors better
> I don't really like green or orange plaid!
> The fact that they are newer isn't bad but the waterboxers scare me.  I
> know the in '80-'83.5 they came with the IV.  
> So I guess what I'm looking for are experiences with each type of
> engine in a camper.  Also, if I get a water cooled engine, which really
> does seem wrong, am I out of luck getting help from AIRS?

