Date: Sun, 23 Jul 2006 06:59:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net" <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net>,
Subject: Re: [T2] Sealing a Hightop(converted)

i think i like the sound of that the best...(i think also i know what that is (tar rope). thing is its sunday now and the only time i will have to do this and of course no auto body suppliers open today not even sherwin williams paint store ....
  i awoke this morning after a long hard storm and rain last night and well.... the bus floor and bed was soaked.....
   
  i got the silicone crap and even though i am tottaLLy freaked out now about the thought of it rusting my bus even more and the silicone giving out after awhile and all these bad things...
   
  thoughts on temp use even though it will stil be in there....?
   
  btw i did not find any acid free labels on the tube of silicone...
   
  i gotta use it today to stop some of this water flow.. and we got more rain expected...
   
  now that i am not low enough to fit in my spot in the carport the wife wins and the beetle hugs it all but that puts me under no cover till i get a little metal awning deal built to the side of the carport  that will fit the bus nicely under for rain and elements...
   
  sooooooo  today i am hoping to take several screws out at a time and fill the hole with the silicone and reinsert the screws while silicone is still wet and hope that they seal her up till i can find some of the tar rope and then will have ot set asida another day to redo it....
   
  not what i wanted for my new hightop but everything has been a blur and came together fast..... and with the upcoming HIGH COUNTRY campout just this coming week.... i am shocked to even have the hightop on there to use... and thankful....
   
  thanks for all the info ... i am taking it all in folks... just money and timing are hendering me from things right now...and it being suday today and the suto stores closed or i would take back the silicone crap and get some tar rope .... or permatex if i could find it anywheres? i know i have seen that maybe i am looking wrong places?
   
  and the wifes beetle is down right now as well...
  always something..isnt it~~!~
   
  peace
  chai
   
  

"mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net" <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net> wrote:
  Go to an auto body supplier and get some tar rope. Used to seal body 
seams. I have a package of tar rope about 1/8" in diameter each, about 
6 inches long. Wrap it around the screw head and then tighten. I used 
it on my Westy 6 yrs ago and it continues to seal fine. 6 yrs out in 
the weather!

Silicone seems to fail for me everytime. It loses it's grip on the 
metal or glass at some point and then turns yellow and becomes a leaky 
mess. The tar will stay and do it's job for a long, long time.

You won't ever see silicone on a car applied at the factory... 

Silicone is popular I think b/c it is an easy material to use, and 
found everywhere in any town. I MUCH prefer 3M seam sealants b/c they 
have lasted for me. Any auto body supplier (yellow pages) will have it 
or something like it. NAPA may also have something like it (a better 
FLAPS i.e. not Advance Auto, Auto Zone) Our small town has 3 body shop 
suppliers so your town prob has some too.

See ya!
Chris in Cookeville - pop 25K
'78 Westy 2,7L




                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
