From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 23 Jul 2006 15:55:03 -0400
Subject: Starting the Bus for the first time, what do I do?

Hey guys,

    Some of you may remember from all my posts that I'm in the process of
re-doing everything in my Bus.

Well, I'm having my garage re-done with the HouseWall Garage system, and I
need to have my garage completely cleared by the 5th of August.  My TransAm is
far too torn apart to be driveable right now, but my Bus is ALMOST done. And I
need to be able to move it out of the garage for the afternoon under it's OWN
power.

The good parts:

1 - Suspension is completely re-done including tie-rods, bushings,
everything.
2 - Tires are new and inflated
3 - Transmission is rebuilt and broken in.
4 - Engine is rebuilt and broken in (but hasn't been started in like almost 2
years)
5 - Fuel tank was emptied, cleaned, and new gas put in. All new fuel lines,
electric fuel pump, new fuel filters and working carbs.
6 - All new ignition wiring, fresh battery, and new alternator belt.
7 - COMPLETELY new "Main Wiring Harness" which includes EVERYTHING in the
engine compartment.
8 - EVERYTHING in the engine compartment is completely re-done, all the
tail-lights are hooked up correctly (except maybe I've reversed the
turn-signal and brake light, but I'll find out soon enough).

The rear is COMPLETELY re-done... I literally don't need to do anything in it.
Flaps are installed, all new door gaskets (hatch, engine lid, and bay door),
everything!


The BAD thing is that the front of the bus is completely gutted in terms of
the wiring harness.

I had hoped to be further along, but I'm simply not. I'm confused as hell
getting all the wiring hooked up, but I HAVE installed a new ignition lock,
with the new ignition switch and new ignition wiring. I also have the new main
harness piped into the correct tube and coming into the front compartment.
I've managed to get some of the wires hooked up in the front correctly to the
fuse box.

Also, the dash, steering column, and all that other stuff HAS been installed
in the Bus.


Now, I guess my question is two-fold:

1 - I'm a bit nervous about starting this Bus for the first time in God knows
how long. What are some things I should be very careful about before I attempt
to even hook up the positive cable?

2 - What do I need to hook up in the front compartment at minimum to at least
be able to get the Bus running so I can drive it around?


Also, there was a guy on here who was willing to sell me a refurbished Bus
steering wheel. I e-mailed him and told him I was interested and he said he
was going to send me pictures but I never heard back from him and then lost
his e-mail. If you're reading this, please e-mail me back!


Thanks guys!

Todd
