Date: Sun, 23 Jul 2006 22:23:29 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cliff Rhoton <commodore97210(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] A primer on wiring new RELAY circuits in our buses

I may be a little help, but not much.
    
I can`t tell you exactly what you have missed as far
as which relays you need; that answer is likely in the
Electrical Schematics found in your Bentley manual. 
Compare the circuits on the Schematic to the
electrical systems you want.  Any circuits that use a
relay will have the relay marked.
   
But what I can tell you is how and why to install
relays in the first place.  A relay is used when the
power draw exceeds the amp capacity of the switch. 
Blower motors, fog lights, refrigerators, that sort of
thing.  By-the-way, my 78 VW Bus DID NOT use a relay
for the rear window deicer, but should have.  Why? 
Because the deicer didn't work when I got the bus
(used) because the switch was burned-out.  That
circuit should have had a relay to reduce the spark
and load carried by the switch.  Switches should not
get hot.  Warm, sometimes.  But physically hot, never.
 Hot switches are a danger sign.  Fires start because
of hot switches and hot wiring.
   
Wiring standard BOSCH relays is simple.  I name Bosch
because of the terminal equivalencies to our T2 bus
Schematics.  You want a relay that has 4 pins.  If you
have 5-pin relays, then don't use but pins 85, 86, 87,
and 30.  
   
(Select of the `hot' feeds discussed in the next
paragraph is an issue of safety.  It is easy to
overload the ignition switch, or a circuit whose
design capacity is 8 amps, and you are attempting to
draw 20 or more.  Ask more questions, and we will
guide you.)
    
Step-by-step instructions to add a new circuit, which
makes use of a relay.  First, you will need a relay, a
couple sizes of stranded wire, a switch, and a new
electrical component you want to add to your bus.  Ok,
if you have an item you want to activate using a
relay, then first find a power `hot` to feed your new
circuit.  Run a wire from that `hot` to a switch. 
(Your `hot` feed must have fuse protection.  No
exceptions.  If no fuse is present, then add one.) 
Run a wire from the other side of the switch to the
Relay pin 86.  Then run a wire from Relay pin 85 to a
sheet metal ground.  Now the next step requires a
decision.  You are adding some kind of load.  You need
to know the amperage or wattage of that load.  And the
load will equate to a specific size of wire.  Contact
this list to ask what size wire matches a specific
load, we will readily answer.  Ok, whatever size wire
is specified for the load, find a `hot` that will
support that load.  Run that wire from your large
"hot" to relay pin 87.  Now take wire of the exact
same size, attach it to relay pin 30, and run the wire
to whatever you are trying to run (fog lights, blower
motor, etc) and connect that large wire to your new
electrical component.  Then run another wire of the
same size, from the other side of your new electrical
load, to the sheet metal frame ground.
   
If, when you flip the power switch on, the relay
buzzes, then swap relay wires 85 and 86.  And you are
done.  If you have questions, ask.  There are wire
color coding standard, but let's keep this simple.
   
Clifford Rhoton
Portland, Oregon
