From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 23 May 2007 14:03:04 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Door Seals....

I was scratching my head about this too when I did my double cab's seals. I
called my Dad and asked him if the doors on the family's '77 were hard to
close when new. They were and he was always telling my mom to "Cher, slam
the door"!

I found out that the Type II front doors have these issues (and maybe more).

1. The doors are too light, not very deep and very tall. They have almost no
weight to aid in the momentum of closing the door. They also catch a lot of
air when they swing because of their large surface area.
2. The door seals that are readily available don't have the correct "squared
edges" and use a different casting which follows the inside arc of the door.
That casting is made too thick and without the squared support the bead
deforms and gets in the way.
3. Some door seals that are available are much too thick and dense. The
originals were fairly slim and soft/porous in comparison. The originals let
out air when they sealed and the Reproductions are much denser and deform
less.
4. When new door seals are installed, buses seal very, very well. So you
have to roll down one window a little bit to give the pressure of the
closing door a way to escape. They won't "shrink" if they are kept out of
the sun and elements. They will however deform over time or "break-in", but
that is only with constant usage.

So what to do?

Buy the correct German hand-made door seal from Ron at BusDepot. There are
other vendors that sell this seal, but I don't know them off of the top of
my head. 

Adjust the striker, post and hinges so the door comes in contact with the
entire surface of the jamb at the same pressure. You can then adjust the
post out a little for a lighter touch, but still get a good seal.

Slam the door with the other window cracked 2". Slamming the door doesn't do
anything to the bus because there isn't enough weight to the door to hurt
much. (If it was a '58 Caddy Eldorado, you might break the window!). It is
more annoying than anything, but not destructive.

Hope this helps somebody somewhere.

Jon

Todd Wrote:

Hey guys,

       I installed a set of new door seals a couple of years ago. I think
they've been on the car now for 2 years with the doors shut 99.9% of the
time. I still have to SLAM the door HARD in orrder to make the door shut
properly. I really REALLY hate doing this because I cannot imagine that this
is good for my Bus. What do I need to do to fix this? I was told by many
people that the new door seals would shrink after a couple of years...
however... I keep my Bus in the garage all the time. Any ideas?


Thanks!!!

Todd  (73 Type-2)
