From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 27 May 2007 17:33:41 -0400
Subject: Getting the Bus back on the road...

Hey guys,

    Well, my 73 VW Type-2 has been running now for a few months now. The
engine and transmission are both in great shape and the motor seems to have
plenty of power. I have all new steering components (inner / outter tie rods,
etc...).

There are a few odds and ends that I need to tie up:

1 - Finish the last bit of wiring and tuck it out of the way.
2 - Fix the brake light circuit
3 - Paint the rear bumper
4 - Paint the wheels
5 - Install new door seals.

Now, my question here is... before I feel safe actually driving the Bus long
distances, I'd really like to know if theres anything that I need to check to
make sure the Bus really is safe to be driving. Now, the fuel tank was
drained, and I have all new hoses from the bottom of the tank, to the fuel
pump, and back to the single webber 2-bbl progressive carb (I'll be keeping
this for the time being until everything else on the Bus is finished). I also
made sure that the brake booster line is secure and there are no leaks. Is
there anything else that I need to check? I believe there are some fuel
evaporative lines that run along the inside of the rear quarters, right? My
Bus was pretty much gutted when I got it. There is no fuel evap canister, and
there don't appear to be any lines going anywhere that I can see. What I'd
like to know is, where did these lines go? Where is the connection to the fuel
tank that the evaporative lines orginally connected to? Since I no longer have
a fuel evap, is it safe to just plug it up? (once I find where the main evap
vacuum line is on the tank). If it's safer to have it on, then is there a more
modern alternative to that huge canister that supposedly would have hung over
the ceiling of the engine compartment?

Anything else I'm missing?


Also, I'm having a REALLY REALLY hard time getting the transmission to shift
into 2nd gear. Once I'm rolling, I have to feather it into gear, otherwise
it's trying to get into reverse. I have a new shift plate (the one that goes
in the floor board). Where is the typical trouble area for this transmission
shift linkage? I have no problem driving stick as half my cars are stick, but
this is crazy. I'm almost ready to swap in an automatic...



Thanks!!!

Todd
