Date: Mon, 28 May 2007 23:34:15 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: "Burning Man" and Sacramento-area bus events

Hi Ben,
    Check out www.vwbuscamp.com  Lots of fellow bus owners on the playa.  Bring old sheets to cover everything in your bus, i.e. upholstery, gear bags, food stores. Dust gets in anyway, but at least you will sleep a little cleaner. Duct tape a layer of heavy duty cardboard, cut to fit, over your entire floor, easy to sweep the playa dust out and remove with it's layer of playa after the event.  You will be reminded of the areas you missed for some time after. AMHIK.  Don't block the lower fridge vent.  I use a small aux fan (Radio Shack) blowing on my fridge heat sink, it keeps the noisy Dometic fan off for longer periods.  Cover every square inch of glass from the inside with heavy duty aluminum foil, if it's outside it will a, rattle and b, blow off at some point. Cover all vents (except for your fridge of course) from the outside with cardboard or foil until you leave for home other wise the first time you turn on your fan or start the engine everything will be covered
 with 10 days of dust.  I use a lot of blue masking tape. Bring a small battery charger and long extension cords.  Someone nearby will be running a quiet generator, for one reason or another, and topping up your batt will help keep things going and get you started, when you want to, for the ride home.  Better for your engine, and your neighbors peace, than running the VW to charge.

    I prefer to store excess stuff, water jugs, used clothing, bags of costumes, outside of my westfalia in a tent.  Leaves more room to entertain in the van and keeps loose stuff from blowing away.  Lock your bike to something.

    Read AND follow the survival guide on the BM website.  The veterans know how to survive and have a good time.  Don't cut yourself short, go for the whole ten days.  Join the Jack Rabbit Speaks list for more info. Drive slow, your van will be full, and heavy (buy your water in Reno), on the way there.  Enjoy. jon

snip>
I am thinking of going to the "Burning Man" event in August this year 
and might be interested in going with a group of Bus people.  I am also 



"While there is lead in the air,
there is still hope".
