From: Shad Henderson <shenderson(-at-)thegeekgroup.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 29 May 2007 13:25:31 -0400
Subject: Engine rebuild

Hi All, 

Decided that the engine that the PO rebuild and put in Frau BlC<cher just
isn't sounding that healthy.  Nasty rattle that probably resides around
the dizzy drive gear.  The local mechanic informed me that when they
were running it, the dizzy jumped up, bending the retaining clamp.  So I
figure that gear can't be in good shape.  And, given some of the
"creative" engineering I've witnessed so far, I'd just feel a whole lot
better doing it myself.  

The friendly local VW mechanic is tracking down an engine for me.  A 2L
T4 with a sunk (but not broken) #3 valve.  

Here's my plan. 

Tear down and rebuild the bottom end of the replacement engine.  Replace
the cam while I'm at it. 

Re-use my heads (only 1-2K miles on them, HeadFlow Masters with 42x36
valves)

Re-use my P&C (after thorough checking).  94mm flat-topped installed by
the friendly local VW mechanic.  Should be fine, only about 5K miles on
them, and I haven't abused them.  

Convert from FI to dual carbs.  NO FLAME WARS!!!  I like both FI and
carbs. I understand them both.  The each have strong and weak points.
I'm opting to try carbs on this engine.  If it doesn't work out for me,
I'll put the FI back on.  Easy 'nuff.  


My questions :

What "mild" cam is recommended for solid lifters in these busses?  I
don't plan on racing, but I'd like a little more pep.  It'll also help
take advantage of the bigger valves. 

What exhaust is recommended for use with a mild cam and bigger valves?
The PO installed an EMPI exhaust, and it's rusting faster than the
battery tray.   Are any good headers out there, that won't require me to
mortgage my soul?

I know the T4 is pretty bulletproof, but are there any show-stopper
Gotchas that I should look out for when I clean & inspect the
replacement case?  Wallowed out cam thrust washer surface, etc? Areas
prone to cracking? 

Never rebuilt a VW engine, let alone a Type 4.  But I have rebuilt the
inline 4 VW's, a Ford 302, and countless dirtbike, 4 wheeler, and
go-kart motors.  I'm happy with grease under my nails and know which end
of the ratchet to use as a hammer.  

Thanks!

Shad H. 
