From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 28 May 2007 21:11:07 -0400
Subject: Sound Deadening, VW Bus!

Hey guys,


    I just kind of ran across this, but I thought I'd mention it in case
anyone was interested in my results. I have a 1984 Porsche 944 that I'm
restoring: ( http://stoney.lizardmaster.com/car84Porsche944.html ). One of the
things that Porsche has always done with their mid level to upscale vehiles is
install lots of sound deadening. While people are just now starting to put
dynomat on panels, Porsche has been doing it since the early 80s.

That said, in the restoration I'm doing of this car, I had replaced most of
the old dynomat type material with real dynomat (I didn't go crazy or
anything), and in the areas I couldn't get to, I started using cans of
"Rubberized Undercoating". My 84 isn't exactly a rare or sought after car, so
I don't feel bad about spraying rubberized undercoating in areas that you
don't see.

In any case, on my 73 VW Bus, I decided to use some of it. I recently got my
Bus running a few months ago and I've been gradually working on it to make it
nice and get the mechanicals up to road-going condition. To make a long story
short, I used about 3 or 4 cans of rubberized undercoating on the inside of
the "passenger area" (aft of the front seats). I sprayed the middle section of
the ceiling, the floor, the areas forward of the rear wheels (behind the
sliding door) and the wall behind the drivers seat (where the sliding door
might go in the Euro version).

I wasn't really expecting noise reduction, I just kind of did this to help
coat the metal to prevent rust after I prepped it, primed and painted it.
Normally when I drive the Bus, it's very loud. I have the stock exhaust, but
the interior is very noisy. I can clearly hear the engine (all the gaskets /
weatherstripping in the vehicle are new). After applying the rubberized
undercoating in just the areas I mentioned, the car is significantly quieter.
It's night and day difference.

I plan to finish it up by covering the entire ceiling with it, and any other
areas of metal that won't be exposed to the interior.


Anyway, just thought you guys might like to hear how that worked out for me.


Todd
