From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'Jason Meyer'" <thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com>, "'type2 List'"
Date: Tue, 15 Apr 2008 14:16:01 -0600
Subject: RE: [T2] Sealing exhaust leaks

Jason,

For the small leaks, I use a high temperature header silicone on both sides
of the gasket. It is orange in color and works very well.

Also, to get the flanges true, you have to take a hand rasp/file to them and
use a Sharpie to see the high points. A grinder's wheel tends to "dish" the
metal a little. Good for getting it close but a heavy rasp file will get you
closest.

I did this on my '78 exhaust system. A lot of elbow grease involved. With
the layer of silicone, no leaks in several thousand miles...

Jon Stiles
'68 Double Cab
'78 Westfalia

-----Original Message-----
From: Jason Meyer [mailto:thesykboy(-at-)gmail.com] 
Sent: Tuesday, April 15, 2008 2:06 PM
To: type2 List
Subject: [T2] Sealing exhaust leaks

I finally got my exhaust system on and am very excited to being soooo close
to driving Zoey again.

Two days ago, I got her fired up and felt around to see if I had any
noticeable leaks from where I installed new gaskets. I did.

As I felt around a few of the connections, I could feel a light amount of
exhaust coming out of a few of the joints. Now when I prepped the flange
surfaces on my heat exchangers (they are  pretty beat up) I ground them as
flat as I could and banged them with a small sledge until they were
relatively flat. However, I can still feel a breeze.

Question:

Is there anything I can add to them that will help seal up the gaps? Is is
really even that big of a deal?

I saw that Permatex sells a spray on gasket sealer that is rated to 500
degrees. I am just afraid that it gets to hotter than 500 and that it will
just burn off.

Any suggestions?

TIA

-- 
-- 
-thesykboy

'75 2.0L VW Riviera Penthouse - Zoey the Orange Hornet

Remember that the next time your little hut seems to be burning to the
ground. It just may be a smoke signal that summons the help
you need.

www.thesykboy.com
