From: "FAUTLEY, Paul (Gillingham)" <Paul.FAUTLEY(-at-)dds.delphiauto.com>
To: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 5 Nov 2002 21:50:31 +0100 
Subject: RE: [VB] Front end questions

I might be lucky with the 8mm square socket as I work in an automotive
technical centre with a fully equiped workshop so they may have one. 
I knew the description in Bentley was too simple!
Found a source of the sway bar clips in the UK too which is good.

Paul

-----Original Message-----
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Claralw(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: 05 November 2002 17:23
To: Paul.FAUTLEY(-at-)dds.delphiauto.com; vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Front end questions


The 8mm square headed screw.  This is often known to be rusted to sh&t.  I 
hope you have been using penetrating oil daily for the last couple weeks, 
having seen how things rust in the UK., it's even worse than here in WA 
state.   The thing is, you might break it off, and have to drill it out, 
while the collar is a softer metal and you don't want to mess it up.   I
know 
the earlier (61 type) collars are available repro, but I don't know about
the 
later collars.    Sometimes I use a propane torch and alternate with a
squirt 
bottle of water to shock the rust loose, then more penetrating oil.   

I have found  that you can mash a 12 point 10mm socket on there, use a short

extension, and it usually works.  If you can find a 8mm square socket you're

stylin.

the square head used to have a wire through it, to wrap around the shift rod

and keep it from undoing on its own, check to make sur ethe wire's gone 
before undoing the set screw.
Always grease liberally when assembling.

    In a message dated 11/5/2002 3:22:59 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
Paul.FAUTLEY(-at-)dds.delphiauto.com writes:

<< 
 On the subject of removing the beam, the only part I have left to do is
 removing the front shift rod.  From postings I remember in the past I
 believe this can be quite a pain.  I have plus gassed the area several
times
 in the hope of freeing it up a bit.  Now in the manual it says to remove
the
 screw.  Is this the square headed bolt - I couldn't see any slot for a
screw
 driver.  Should I use a pair of mole grips on this?
 
 Thanks
 Paul
