From: "Bob" <bobpetzel(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Nov 2002 20:24:22 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] fuel smell

Kevin-
I have had that same smell in my bus as of late. I found out where the gas
smell is coming from which is from the fuel cap. If it does not seal
good(hey why won't that oil cap seal on the filler neck?)the fumes escape as
the engine compartment warms the fuel in the tank causing fumes which since
the weather has gotten a bit nippier I have hooked up my heater which gets
it air supply from the engine fan located about 16" from said fumigating
filler neck and the heater boxes not having the most air tight flapper seal
leaking air by it to enter the cab via the duct system and arriving at your
nose. Also the strongest when you first get in (raw gas) and for about five
mins of driving. Then it pretty much goes away. These conclusions came about
because I have an oil cap on the filler neck and vicsa versa(keep forgetting
to swap them around). Also the last time I filled up a little gas spilled
around the neck, it was cold and heater was on. Fire it up to leave and it
was all about "don't light a match" or we will blow. And this odor started
after I hooked up the heater boxes and got them working. Before they were
not connected from the boxes to the ducts. As for the burning smell it
arrived at the same time as the gas but it kinda reminds me of when you
first fire up a wall heater that has been sitting for months...the burning
dust smell but in the bus it kinda has a sweet smell to it w/ the dust smell
mixed. I think it may be something that gets on the heat exchangers while it
sits between trips because that smell goes away after it heats up. Maybe an
oil mist, blow by or who knows what? Could even be condensation vaporizing
out of the fan shroud and heater boxes. Mufflers spewing water first thing
as an example. fan and heater system could do the same thing. Something to
ponder.

As I was proof reading this something else hit me about the duct system. The
silencers for the ducts are packed with what seems to be a cotton like
material that could give off a burning kinda smell if it has moisture in it.
The combo of the hot air thru the silencer and moisture in the material
getting hit with the most Btu's right out of the boxes. Well it sounds good
anyway.....lol.

Bob
'62 Kombi Swivel
