From: "Bob" <bobpetzel(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: <wes.kennedy(-at-)jademountain.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 7 Nov 2002 03:37:26 -0800
Subject: Re: [VB] SOUND DAMPNER?

The silencers are what goes between the heater box and the duct to the
front. On split buses it comprises of a flexible metal pipe and a oblong
metal silencer(looks like a little muffler). The silencer is kinda like a
glass pack muffler. A straight thru center w/ the packing around it. The
packing is held in by what looks like 1/4"chicken wire screen as it forms
the tube that the air flows through.

On my 62 it was og stale air but I am useing a fresh air system(ie heater
boxes). I had both silencers in place but only 1 metal flex pipe. The stale
air system uses a smaller duct pipe than fresh air system. Stale air is
about 2" o.d. whilr fresh air is about 2 1/2" o.d.. In my parts stash I
found a couple of new plastic bug type silencers which fit over the duct
piping perfectly and the end was the same o.d. as the heater box(i.e. they
did not connect). also they were a little too short. To remedy this problem
I used a 2" no hub abs pipe coupler(available at your local hardware store)
to connect the heater box to the slincer. A no hub fitting is a flexible
pipe union that uses hose clamps to connect 2 pieces of black abs pipe
together w/o glue. They are made of a flexible plastic and not rubber so
they don't stink up your bus like a radiator hose would(I know from
experiance). otherwise a note here "don't use radiator hose" unless you like
the smell of a tire factory in your bus.

With the silencers in and the heater going full blast(ha ha ha) you don't
hear a thing. Quite as a church mouse. But then I drive a standard '62 Kombi
Swivel(no interior just a sheet metal box....lol) so quite the interior is
not. They may not be og but I think the plastic silencers are better than
the og's and they are insulated as well.

Bob
'62 Kombi Swivel
'66 Meyers Manx
'67 Vert
'85 Cabriolet
'73 Dodge P/U
'23 Ford Roadster
