Date: Sun, 25 Aug 2002 12:10:18 -0600
Cc: Type2(-at-)type2.com
To: Jon DeVos <hippygarden(-at-)comcast.net>
From: westydriver <westydriver(-at-)westydriver.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Synthetics, and air cooled engines

[...]
I have seen mentions of differences but  no scientific article that 
supports that.  in fact even the oil mfr tables show the same heat 
curves as regular oil for time to warm up.  (the critical low mark)
The big difference is in the high temp.  synths now have much higher 
points of test.  most regular oil charts stop at 230 but several synth 
charts go on up to 300

I took some synth and reg oil and did an unscientific check.
two small metal pots
1 qt synth
1 qt reg oil same weight as synth
heat oil up to 220 degrees
then let sit and check cooling
found no significant difference in rate to getting to high temp or in 
cooling to the low temp

in the oven test there was only the thin metal pots
on an engine you have masses of heated up metal.
tested temps on my engine with a load of reg oil. timed how long it 
took to get up to 180 and then shut down and timed how long to get down 
to 120.'
did the same that afternoon with synth.  got the same results.
the only time i have seen differences was if you take them and freeze 
in a dry ice bath or if you heat to 325 and hold it there for a while.
regular oil will turn to faffy when that cold and when left at that 
heat for too long will actually start to smell  like it is breaking down
this summer on climbs through the mountains i hit 300 degrees on two 
trips.  I changed the oil the next day after returning.  With the new 
ratings on breakdowns that i have seen from labs i am now changing to 
20-50 synth for year around.  I used to run 40 or 50 straight weight in 
summers
jimt

On Sunday, Aug 25, 2002, at 10:39 US/Mountain, Jon DeVos wrote:

> My wife has always put straight weight oil in her bus but I had always 
> thought it would make sense to use a multi weight (that's why they 
> were developed ), then one question occurred to me, is there any 
> difference in the heat transfer properties of multi-weight or 
> synthetic.  Since it is an oil cooled engine, the thermal conductive 
> properties would be of far greater importance then in a water cooled 
> engine.  I am sure that the vw engine is designed for a specific heat 
> absorption and then radiation.
> Jon
WestyDriver
82Westy

