Date: Mon, 26 Aug 2002 10:54:38 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: MoFoCo Type IV Engines - and baaaaaad 3rd party dealings

I had several dealings with Mofoco when I was stationed in Italy '91-'94. 
Early in my stay it was easier to ship things from the States than deal 
with the language barrier. Also 1 trip to the local VW dealer (nice looking 
place) resulted in a $65 charge for the oil slinger washer on a Type I 
engine. I paid for it b/c it was an acquaintance's engine and she wanted it 
fixed no matter what!!!

Mofoco did well with small repackaged orders like Bosch Blue Coil + 009 
Dist kit. Always got what I ordered. We ordered 2 whole engine kits where 
everything is new except the case and many of the parts were mismatched 
both times. That is a HUGE hassle when phone calls are 50 cents a minute 
and shipping is expensive. Neither engine ever assembled. 1st was a bad 3rd 
party deal, 2nd was roommate that lost interest in his Beetle and sold the 
car and gave away the engine parts.

As for the quality of things - we were doing a stock rebuild for the 1st 
deal and the parts looked okay. We never assembled the engine as it was a 
female Naval officer that belonged to the engine. Oh what a story went with 
this car.....

She had the car first towed to the local VW dealership (across the street 
from the military base) where the car sat for a week before she made some 
serious fraud accusations against them. Mainly I think she was suffering 
from sticker shock.

She approached my friend who enlisted my help to assemble a new engine for 
her. I agreed to help but only if we were paid for the labor - she would be 
responsible for supplying everything (ordering and receiving the parts). I 
was gun shy on military leadership anyhow.... <grin!>

We left her car at the base (70's Beetle 'vert) because we did not want to 
be responsible for the car. Took the engine home to rebuild. We began to 
hear rumors of her experience with the VW dealership and got worried - and 
rightfully so.

Things got weird - she accused us of mail fraud (she ordered and accepted 
the package - we did not yet have anything in our possession), then accused 
us of driving her car around town (we showed our military lawyer the car 
sitting on base sans engine), etc. etc. We did see the parts but never 
assembled the engine.

Weird lady. Once the falling out was complete and we were off the hook - we 
delivered her engine to the VW dealership and let them go get her car. They 
were bummed about dealing with her because she started out with them and 
accused them of a bunch of stuff too. I figured they deserved each other 
(reference the $65 oil slinger washer).

Thank God we didn't get that thing assembled only to have something go 
wrong while I was still in the Navy. I can only shudder when I think about 
what she would have done to us then!!!! <grin!> Brig time, chipping paint 
on the mothball fleet - only 372 ships to go....

Got out with my good conduct pin and my Honorable Discharge in summer 1995 
and RAN away as fast as I could. They offered me a reenlistment deal and I 
laughed in their face. Actually felt sort of bad about that later as I am 
mostly a polite fellow. I do miss all the travel though!!!

>Hello All     The two places that I personally will not deal with, Mofoco and
>The Parts Place,  Email me off  list if you really need to know why.  Later
>and have fun  Mark Dearing  Salem Import service  Salem Va    PS  I have been
>doing VWs for over 30 years

Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power)
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion


