Date: Mon, 26 Aug 2002 13:51:24 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Glen <gw240d(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] removing generator



On Sun, 25 Aug 2002, Glen wrote:

> I think I've got everything I need for an alt/gen
> swap.
> I'm going to pull my generator with the engine in,
> using Muir as a guide.
> Any tips from old scarred hands out there?
> Someone on the archives speculated that it might be
> easier to remove the big fan nut first and pull off
> the generator.

Be good to yourself and disregard the Muir instructions!  The Haynes
instructions aren't good either.

Here's how to go.

Before you disassemble anything, disconnect the battery ground strap,
hold the pulley with a screwdriver, reach
around in front of the shroud with a 36mm socket and a 6" extension on a
ratchet and loosen the nut big nut.  If the wrench is pointing straight up
push it to the right side of the bus to loosen!  Reach in there and
carefully unscrew the nut, keeping track of the washer and shims behind
it.  Put these aside.

Next, disconnect the electrical, loosen the generator strap, and remove
the four screws that attach the round tin to the shroud.  The two bottom
screws are the hardest, and should be replaced with hex bolts for
reassembly.  Try little vise-grips if these are cheese-head screws.

Carefully pull the generator and its tin out.  There will be loose shims
on the fan hub, so don't tilt it downward.  Secure the shims as soon as
you get your hand in there.

Once the generator is clear, the fan comes out.  It is a very close fit,
but don't force anything.

If you have a 38A generator, you will need a new fan hub to go with your
alternator, which isn't included with the "conversion kit"

Install the new generator stand.

Put the new tin, hub and fan on the alternator and figure out which
combination of shims will yield the correct clearance between fan and tin.
If there is any interference stop and figure it out, don't force anything!

Remove the fan and keep track of which shims go where.

Put the fan in the shroud.

Put the strap on the alternator loosely.

Install the alterator with the rear shims on the fan hub.  Lift the fan
onto the shaft as you put it into place.

Put the front shims on followed by the washer and big nut.  Make sure
everything is in place on the hub, not hung up on the flats of the hub.

Reinstall the four tin screws.  Use a collection of blue words as needed
on the lower screws.

Tighten the alternator strap.

Hold the big nut with the 36mm socket and torque the pulley nut to the
specified torque in Bentley.  Both nuts have the same torque spec and when
you torque one, you torque the other!

Adjust belt, reinstall electrical (bypass regulator for alternator),
reinstall ground strap.

Fire up.  Gen light staying on until throttle is blipped is normal.

George Lyle

