Date: Fri, 13 Jun 2003 00:50:42 -0500
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: motor update

drove the alumihell motor around some the other day, including a trip 
to see my tranny builder david crow.
did ok; still runs too rich (found a note in the glove box reading 
120m 125z et 55p 65i 50 squirter... which is stock brasol 30/31, but 
i still need to yank it and double check). the airbypass and idle 
speed screws are pretty far out. any suggestions on which jets i need 
to change and what direction? i'm thinking a larger emulsion......
raymond seemed to indicate it might be a factor of the carb being too 
small for the motor - when i have time in july, i'll rebuild a 34 to 
see if it helps any.

the little oil drip from the case inlet got bigger, and you could 
swing the fitting to and fro. not a huge leak, but when it splashed 
on the muffler it freaked people out! BIG clouds of smoke :)
my vwalley puller slid the pulley right off and i futzed with the 
fitting for awhile - it needed to screw in 1/4 turn more to both seal 
and face the right way, but that extra twist would likely crack the 
case. clyde berg said to run a tap further in, a little at a time, 
until it was right, but for now i green locktited it (his other 
suggestion). no leak when i tested it today, but i haven't hit the 
highway yet.

david crow suggested that the reason my endplay widened after run-in 
was due to the new BLACK  vw-logoed shims i used... he suggests the 
silver ones, and will even spend an hour going thru OG shims to find 
a non-cupped one and use it. he says the black ones are too soft. 
endplay  seems to have stabilized at .11mm, and crow said better lee 
than windward, so i'll not worry about it.

he was busy, so i didn't get to ask my only question about his 
tranny: esp from first, when shifting to another gear, it will 
-PONK!- out of gear... i suspect the shifter is adjusted improperly 
or worn, but am open to other suggestions.

btw, mr crow has had some recent personal tragedy; if he is a friend 
of yours, he may appreciate a note or card.
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism." -- George Washington
