From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 14 Jun 2003 13:24:04 EDT
To: djohnson1(-at-)snet.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] popouts on a dc

In a message dated 6/14/2003 9:10:58 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
djohnson1(-at-)snet.net writes:

<< Hi list, just wondering if the popouts and glass on a 60 dc are the 
 same as on a regular bus.  My drivers side glass is broken, and I was 
 thinking about maybe replacing the whole assembly at the same time.  
 I'll be at the litchfield show tomorrow.
 
 Thanks,
 Don J in CT
  >

early double cabs used different frames (265 847 105) than later double cabs 
and mid 54 and later buses.   the later version( 221 847 105A) has the latch 
holes above each other, the early version they are next to each other paralell. 
  I never had a DC (early or late) but heard that if you use a later frame 
&latch it one that came with the early version, the window won't open/close 
properly (JP?)   I think 60 DCs might have the early version.   anything on 
dropgates.com?

I wish I had a copy of the 61 edition of the bus parts list.   the later 
editions don't carry the info on this part.  

anyway the glass size is the same, so if you have the early frame you could 
remove yours, dissasemble, clean, derust, paint, reassemble w/ new seals, and 
install.  

the frame can be a bear to remove, the tiny flat slotted screws being rusted. 
 I found that liberally spraying liquid water, finding a exact size 
screwdriver and tapping the other end with a hammer, and repeating every day for a week 
before actually trying to unscrew the screws worked for me.  It is easy to 
strip the slots and bugger the works up, and drilling them out os a PITA.  

    when the frame is out, be patient. repeat this process for removing the 4 
screws that hold the frame halfs together.   cut away the old seal with a 
razor knife (safely) and you'll find the 4 slotted screws. You level of rust may 
vary.  
You could push a later frame into the hole to plug it for the time being when 
the windows out if need be.
