Date: Fri, 20 Sep 2002 15:37:25 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: El-cheapo-voltage-meter-project

I am wanting to duplicate (in function at least) something I saw in a 
motorcycle mag for use on my motorcycle and in my VW. Would be useful for 
boats, tractors, jet skis, RV's, etc. The catalog price is quite steep 
compared to my quick mental estimate of the parts.

It is a simple looking little thing that has three colored LED lights that 
tell you that the charging system is GOOD, NOT SO GOOD, and SOL - - - - 
green, yellow, red.

Can any of your engineering types tell me how to create this circuit? I 
understand the LED's and resistors to get the 12 volts down to a usable 
form, but what controls the threshold at which each light comes on and off?

I'm assuming transistors. I realize there is 10 gazillion different 
varieties with different voltage ratings and I'll be happy to do that hunt, 
I just want to get a better idea of the circuit.

With an experimental version built with relays I figure we would have 
relays with a minimum switching current and the relay would not close until 
that threshold was met, thus keeping the yellow or green LED's off if your 
charging system was only producing enough juice (10V) to trigger the red 
LED. The red would be straight wired to the system, the yellow relay would 
be fed through a resistor to keep it off until 12 volts (or whatever level 
we choose), and the green relay would be isolated by a larger resistor that 
would put it's threshold higher than that. In theory we could even add a 
forth LED to indicate overcharge and that would limit the last LED to 15V 
or higher.

And 14V all three LED's would be on unless you included wiring that would 
remove power from the other relays when the green LED was lit. As the green 
relay closed it would open the power to the lower relays (yellow and red).

This could all be done with transistors - right? What type would I be 
looking for?

As I am an amateur I have to ask a question: transistors will do the very 
same thing as a relay for smaller loads - right?

And why not a $10 voltage meter? Well because I like to take the simple and 
make something complicated out of it and b/c a few small LED's could be 
mounted ANYWHERE and would be quite useful in Ultravans and Westfalias. You 
could have LED's for the main battery and another set for the coach battery.

Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

