Date: Mon, 26 Mar 2007 06:42:07 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chris <cflesher1(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Installed my USED thermostat today. :-)

courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:Now to the question I really wanted to put out there. I installed the wire with a tiny amount of slack in it, as first time, it was guitar string tight, you could hit a high note on it. I gave it enough slack so that I could deflect it at the thermostat about 1/8". I'm assuming that making it ultra tight would stress the thermostat unnecessarily. Opinions?

  **Courtney, the thermostat is always under "stress" when it is cold (during installation). It is contracted (closed) and squeezed IN, it's own "stress" holding the cooling flaps closed, not allowing cool air over the cylinders, allowing the engine to get to operating temperature.
  Once the engine gets to operating temperature, the thermostat expands (opens) and un-squeezes OUT, relieving it's own "stress" allowing the flaps to go to their default position of open, allowing cool air over the cylinders.
  Once you understand this, you'll realize that when you install the thermostat, you need to have it in it's closed/cold position. At this position, it holds the flaps closed. Thus, you need to move the flaps from their default position (open), hold them here and then tighten the cable to them. It takes a few hands and/or vice grips.  I'm sure you'll get feedback on folks' fancy methods of doing this. 
  In the end, the answer to your question is: there is not supposed to be any slack on the thermostat cable (possibly may be when it's expanded and open) when you're installing it COLD with flaps held CLOSED. If the cable is not tight (has slack), then it can't possibly be holding the flaps closed, as their spring is, by default, pushing them open.
   
  It's possible since you're mentioning "slack" that you have a blown thermostat. If it is springy, it is blown. Cold, it must be tight, contracted, and squeezed IN.  It's also possible that your cable might be "too long," allowing you to attach it with thermostat contracted and flaps open. I *think* (ouch) the standard length cable won't let you do this. I *think* (ouch) that you HAVE to hold the flaps closed in order to attach a standard length cable from a contracted (cold, closed) thermostat. This leads me to believe your thermostat may be perpetually expanded (blown).
   
  Hops this helps, Chris

 
---------------------------------
TV dinner still cooling?
Check out "Tonight's Picks" on Yahoo! TV.
