Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2007 04:40:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Richard Coombs <rfcoombs(-at-)syr.edu>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Re: Burning Points

first off thanks for the replies very grateful for that....
   
  richard coombs here might be the closest to what my thoughts have been lately....
   
  reason behind this...?
  my dizzy is old and i wonder about the condition of the shaft .. it looks like the humps arent as they should be so they may be worn down causing my block to wear faster.
   
  i do however always make sure that the dizzy shaft it lubed as well as they points block has lithium (white grease) on them...
   
  as well as i keep the top of the shaft lubed..
   
  i can go about 200 miles or more before it starts missing this is correct as well richard...
   
  i firgure what i will do is try to come home and take the 009 out of the beelte and put in my bus and see if that makes a difference...
  maybe i can use my dizzy in the beetle since we just drive the beetle around town.. and not everyday....
   
  will shoot for this this afternoon after i get the grass cut... or should i say after i cut the pollen with the lawn mower...
   
  thanks yall let you know later on if that fixes it....
   
  couple more things real quick
   
  i do have a blue bosch coil but i changed it to the olde black ones.. i had one as a spare...
   
  hopefully this will help me in solving this problem..
   
  i think changing the dizzy to my spare may be my biggest advantage...lets hope also to be my solution..
  we will see soon...
  thank you all..
  chai
  

Richard Coombs <rfcoombs(-at-)syr.edu> wrote:
  Chai, 

One other possibility that might cause your symptoms-- I once had a
'71 Super Beetle that I was using for a 40 mile 1-way commute. I would
set the points, but after a week or ~200 miles, it would start to miss
badly, & I'd find the points almost closed.

Turned out the hole for the point adjusting screw in the points plate
was stripped (probably by me). A local mechanic with a set of small,
fine metric taps was able to get me back on the road, but I still had
problems, & eventually had to replace that distributor.

Learned the hard way not to over-torque that screw.

Just something else to check.

Hope this helps,


Richard Coombs
Syracuse, NY
'71 Station Wagon "Putt-Putt"



                                                          1976 HighTop(Grace)
   
  1973 Westy(Olive)
   
  1968 Beetle(Glory)
   
  www.HappyKyndArts.org






























 
---------------------------------
8:00? 8:25? 8:40?  Find a flick in no time
 with theYahoo! Search movie showtime shortcut.
