Date: Tue, 27 Mar 2007 23:20:50 -0400
From: "H Steven Dolan" <stevendolan(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Chasing electrical gremlins - 1969 Eurowesty

Hello all!

As I hope Mark reported I got the '69 back to VA without major incident.
The only minor incidents were that David and Mark adjusted the valves for me
in Dallas and Salem respectively.  Other than that, the bus just drove.  I
took the flatest route I could find (I-10 from LA to Banning, Around the
Salton Sea to I-8, back to I-10, I-20, I-30, I-40, I-81, and I-66)  I was in
third only once, coming out of LA and trapped behind a truck I fell off the
torque curve.

That said, I am now attempting to get the bus thru VA safety inspection.
Most of the problems are electrical (no parking lights, no backup lights,
etc.) so I have started into that most annoying of proceses, stripping out a
half dozen dead radio wires and a dozen DPO wiring mods.

The first odditiy is that the turn signal circuit matches no diagram on
vintagebus.  The relay (PN 211 953 215 C) has four spade connectors, not the
nine I was expecting.  There also appears to be an internal malfunction in
that box, as the dash indicators will flash a time or two then fade.  I am
betting when I open the box, I'll find a dead capacitor. Does anyone
(KARL????) have an ID on that part # or better as circuit diagram?  I have
not removed or opened it yet, as I am working on the parking lights first.

The parking lights... I have power into the switch and power to the
headlights but no power out on the wire to the parking light switch.  I have
not scrounged thru my stash, but again.... how universal are headlight
switches?  Other than cosmetics, did the contact set change much?  I'll open
this one up and get into contact polishing, but I'd like to know if one of
my late bay switches will substitute if I screw up.

The rest of the electrics....  I am certain that the reverse light problem
is a loose contact *somewhere.*  As I look under the dash, I see the remains
of 4-5 radio wiring jobs.... DAMN DPO'S!  A major radio-ectomy is called for
here.

Lastly, I'm headed for the drug store tomorrow for a set of reading
glasses.  Even with a halogen on the dash, I can no longer read the terminal
numbers on the switches/relays. :-(

Steve Dolan
