Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2007 10:35:32 -0700
From: "richard jackson" <aiiadict(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Finally got the new engine in my 73

73 automatic bus

EA81 subaru engine (1800cc)
watercooled

radiator mounted right behind the engine in the compartment.

tried 34PICT carb but it wasn't running very well.

So I switched to SPFI (single port fuel injection)

It's a bolt up replacement (manifold).  I was previoulsy intimidated
by fuel injection.  Now I like it.  I am a computer and robotics
hobbyist, and it was ?!fun!? to trace all the wiring, test all the
sensors.  The throttle body is a cylinder with the throttle valve in
the center.  No complicated passages, no adjustment screws, no float
bowl, no complicated vacuum scheme.

Now my VW blinks a light at me if there is something wrong with the
fuel or ignition system!  I've got the manual in the glove
compartment, so I can figure out what's wrong.  Much nicer than a
carb.

TONS of room in the engine compartment.

Plenty of power.

I'm not sure if the Kennedy adaptor is quite right.  I don't think
they had fabricated an EA81 to automatic adaptor prior to this one.
It might be pulling the torque converter too far away from the trans.

I'll post pics soon.

What I had to do:

1)rear engine mount.  This took about 3 hours.  angle iron bolted to
the engine case, extending to the rear.  then a plate bolted to the VW
crossbar, sandwich the subaru mounts between the extender bars and the
crossbar.

2)tie up the wiring harness to keep it from falling into the belt

3)mount fuel pump and coil, also the computer

4)the rebuild on the subaru engine.  new bearings, rings, etc.

5)the fuel injection needed some mods.  cut up the dist..  reverse the
direction of the idle air control solenoid (it bumped into the dist
before)


The SPFI would probably be a good mod for 1600 cc engines.  I don't
know if the dist. would fit (crank pos sensor is in it)...  but I'm
sure you could do it with a bit of hacking.

Anyway... it starts, sounds great, idles, and climbs hills w/o a problem!

next:  heater core, and WATER HEAT!  No more headaches from CO.

Rich
