Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2007 11:11:53 -0700
From: "richard jackson" <aiiadict(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Finally got the new engine in my 73

On 3/28/07, Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com> wrote:
> Richard, that sounds fantastic. Want to share some specifics with the
> group about the SPFI?


SPFI:

It is a replacement for the standard subaru carb intake manifold.
Pretty much the only difference is the shape of the flange that bolts
to the carb.

Instead of a carb, it's a "throttle body".  A cylinder with the
throttle valve in it.  Above the throttle valve is the injector.  All
the injector consists of is an electromagnetic cutoff..  Power to it
and the fuel sprays.  No power to it and it doesn't spray fuel.  To
supply the proper pressure to the injector, there is a pump that gives
50PSI.  Regulators attached to the fuel lines regulate this down to
about 20psi.  There is a fuel return line.  what I did is put a T on
the VW gas tank output line.  so one port to the tank, one port to the
pump supply, one to the return line.

There are a few sensors:

1)crank pos sensor.  this is built into the distributor.  Besides
that, all the dist. consists of is a 4-way rotary switch (to switch
the HV to the different plugs).  the pos sensor is an optical encoder.
 It has 360degree output, with accuracy of 1 degree.

2)throttle position sensor.  this is on the side of the throttle body.
 It has a built in idle switch.  When no throttle, idle switch is ON
and tells computer to go to "idle mode".  The position sensor is a
variable resistor

3)AFM.  air flow meter.  This is "hot wire" type.  Many FI systems use
"flapper valve" meter to measure air flow.  Apparently these are prone
to sticking, and the computer needs to compensate for altitude.  The
hot wire type is just a wire that that gets heated.  When air goes by
it, it cools the wire.  This changes the resistance and is measured by
the computer

4)coil...  this just has a large transistor on it, to switch the coil
on and off.  The ignition signal from the computer is low current.
The transistor steps it up to high current.  It's basically a points
replacement, with the computer controlling the timing.

5)temp sensor... measures temp of coolant which reflects temp of engine.

6)smog equipment:  EGR, purge container.  This is controlled by the
computer.  Might come in handy when CA decides to screw all of us smog
exempt drivers.

with idle switch on (no throttle), the computer opens the air bypass
valve.  this allows air into the throttle body, below the throttle
valve.  Gas is sprayed onto the top of the throttle valve.  It is
gapped open a milimeter or so, so the gas can drip down into the
vacuum of the manifold.

With idle switch off (throttle!)  the computer looks at the AFM,
throttle pos sensor.  It computes how much gas you need for that
ammount of air, and also modifies the advance/retard of the timing.
The O2 sensor measures ammount of oxygen in the exhaust.  Based on
this measurement the gas spray is modified as well.  The crank pos
sensor gives RPM as well as position information to the computer.
based on RPM, throttle position, air flow, the timing is modified.

The only adjustment on the whole system is 1)idle position of idle
switch, 2)idle speed adjustment.

everything else is handled by the computer.

The computer doesn't go bad.  The sensors will age and stop operating
properly.  When this happens, the computer knows it, and puts out
codes to let you know what is wrong.

The computer is constantly "relearning" the engine and the sensors.
As the sensors age, they change resistance.  As they warm and cool,
they change resistance.  The computer knows this and makes
adjustments.

If a part fails, the computer does it's best to "emulate" the broken
part.  IE broken o2 sensor.  In the past the o2 sensor gave me this
reading when at this airflow/throttleposition/rpm.  I don't get any
reading from it now, so I'll just substitute data I've collected in
the past that corresponds to the working sensor readings.

With a good manual and a meter, it's very easy to troubleshoot.
Especially when the computer tells you what's wrong in the first
place.

wiring:  wires run straight from the computer to the sensors.  I
pulled out +12v BAT power from the harness, as well as +12 switched
ignition power.  The wiring LOOKS scary, but I know what's in the
harness, and it's really simple.


Rich
