Date: Wed, 28 Mar 2007 13:58:02 -0700
From: "richard jackson" <aiiadict(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Finally got the new engine in my 73

> More specifically, where do you get this setup?  Most aftermarket EFI
> setups are multi-port and not so easily adapable to the VW engine as the
> system you are using.

EA82 SPFI from subaru.  It was direct bolt up the the EA81.

the manifold is the same "setup" as the VW 1600.  center intake to
throttle body, spans the engine and bolts to the top of the heads.
you cold probably modify the intake manifold to work with VW...  a
bandsaw and a TIG welder would probably do it.  since VW is aircooled,
you could just cut the manifold with a hack saw, 1/2 way between
center and ports to heads.  on both sides.  then hose clamp a fat hose
around it.  have to make sure the water ports on the head side are
plugged.

so besides that, the brake booster would be connected to the brake
booster vacuum port on the subaru manifold..

the dist might have to be modified.  You might be able to pull the
optical encoder out of the subaru dist. and put it in a VW
distributor.  you'd have to pull all the advance,retard mechanics and
the points (or "hall effect" switch) out of the VW dist.

besides that...  throttle cable connection.  I cut the throttle cable
out of the subaru that I got the manifold from.  so it has the end to
mate with the throttle valve on subaru.  I cut this cable short, and
clamped it to the VW throttle cable.

mount spots for fuel pump, fuel filter, coil, and computer.

the harness is a good length (as is from the subaruGL or loyale) to
have computer in front left of engine compartment, on the "firewall"

the fuel pump can go on either side, probably easiest to have it on
the passenger side, right where the gas line is coming from the tank.

The coil needs either 1)a long HV wire going to the dist or 2)mount it
close to the engine and use the stock short wire.  #2 is tough because
the edges of the VW engine compartment are so far away.

mount for the air intake box/filter holder.

I'll modify an intake and distributor for some $$.  I have an extra
complete setup here that could be modified (intake, air box, dist,
harness, computer, AFM)



Rich
