Date: Mon, 21 Jul 2003 14:36:41 -0400
From: busfool(-at-)earthlink.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Bay Single Cabs for Sale

Circumstances dictate that I consider selling off my 1969 Single Cab.  
If you're interested:

The Good:

Recent (well under 1K) Mark Deering 1600 single port rebuild
Front and Cab have been painted
New TMI Seat Upholstery
VDO Gauge Panel includes two CHT, Oil Pressure, Oil Temp, Volts, Tach 
(in clock 	position)
Under dash mount housing with AM/FM CD Player, amp, and 10" sub under 
seat, Polk
	component speakers in dash.
New Windshield seal
Brakes have been redone (new hoses and brake lines, rebuilt wheel 
cylinders, turned 	drums)
Gas tank hot dipped/steam cleaned and coated with POR Gas Tank Treatment

The Bad:

Side Gates, while fairly rust free, are bowed slightly outward
Bed behind drivers seat had rust holes. I removed the smaller quarter 
section (have donor 	section to repair)
Body is straight except for bottom of right rear corner, which had been 
pushed up a couple 	inches
Amp Gauge installed but not wired
Treasure Chest Doors have some rust around locks
Rust damage in cab floors, this has been repaired, but it was there.
No door interior door panel on driver's door.
There are pinhole rust spots in the rockers

The Ugly:

Treasure Chest floor was shot and has been completely removed (I have a 
cargo floor 	section from a bus that I intended to use to replace it)


I have been working on this off and on for a couple years, intending 
only to restore it as a functional, not show quality, daily driver.  Is 
is licensed and inspected, and I have been driving it to campouts.  I 
simply no longer have the time to work on it, and don't have the space 
to keep it until such time as I do.

As part of the deal, I'll include a 1971 SC for parts.  Its nose, cab 
and treasure chest are in great shape, but it had an engine fire which 
toasted the back half of the bed and rear gate.  I stripped out what 
was left of the cargo bed for donor material for the '69.  The '71 is a 
very viable prospect for restoration if you're not wanting to go back 
with an original bed setup (a Westfalia wide body  style bed comes to 
mind).  I also have a running 1600 DP which could be used in the '71.  
If I sell these vehicles, I'll also pass on my collection of spare VW 
parts.  The side gates off the '71 are somewhat crusty, but are 
straight and intact.

I'll take $2,500 for everything.  If you want just the '71 and spare 
parts, everything goes for $400.

The '69 is in Greensboro, NC.  The '71 is stored in a barn near 
Hickory, NC.

I can send some pics and more specific details upon request.

Thanks,

Chad Sibert
