From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Jun 2006 19:57:33 -0400
Subject: The BUS is coming along!!!

I'm really excited, the Bus is really starting to come together, and it's
really starting to feel like things are being done correctly. When I got the
Bus, it was nothing more than a freshly painted shell, with a GEX motor and
transmission. With some minor work, the Bus ran. My wife and I drove it on the
weekends here and there, and even used it to help us move into our new home
(which we've been in for 3 years now). I bought all the easy to install
external pieces, and installed new windows, but I wasn't satisfied with having
30+ year old wiring, hoses, and everything else. So, I tore the entire thing
apart. It sat for about 2 years in pieces, but now I've finally made the
determination to piece it back together.

I've installed all the new wiring, and have most of it hooked up in teh engine
compartment (except for the tail-lights and the heater). The tin work was
mostly missing when I bought it, but thanks to Busted Bus and my local
junkyard, I found some of the missing tin which I didn't have. I've started to
piece everything back together, and replace any wear items. It really makes me
happy that I know it's being done correctly (with the flaps and all the
correct tin work). I've got a little bit more to go before it's mechanically
and electrically sound.

I've got a few questions though that I'm hoping you guys might be able to
answer:

1 - What do I need to replace in the shifter so that the shift from 1st to 2nd
is so difficult? It really WANTS to go into reverse when I try to go to
second.

2 - Where can I get some of those new machine screws for the tin work? I need
at least 10 screws. Is there a hardware kit I can buy for my Bus? The local
yard currently does not have any busses in it, and Busted Bus is in the
process of moving.

3 - Is there a new replacement engine tin "kit"? If I have to go back and do
this over again in a few years for whatever reason, I'd really like to replace
it with all new pieces, preferably aluminum. Just curious if anyone has
bothered to remake these?



Thanks for all the help!!!


Todd
1973 Type-2
