From: "Todd Super Bassist" <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "George Lyle" <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>, "DurocShark"
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 11 Jun 2006 22:45:01 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] 74 Rust Free Bus in CA for $80?

I know this is a real sensitive subject for a few people, but I'm curious 
what really is the problem with swapping VINs on identical cars? I mean, all 
ethical subjectivism aside, what issues are there involved with swapping the 
VINs on two nearly identical cars? I mean, is there ever a situation where 
that would be allowed?

I recently installed a mint condition replacement dash from Busted Bus into 
my 73 Bus. The dash that came with my Bus was rather beat up.. the steel 
dash part had some surface rust, and for whatever reason it looked like it 
had been stabbed a couple of times with a screw driver.

Never the less, I drilled out my old vin, drilled out the vin on the new 
dash, and after painting the new dash, I rivited my original VIN to the new 
dash to make it official.

Now, I understand that simply swapping vins from one Bus to another is 
illegal. But, at what point does it become legal? How much metal from the 
original Bus is needed before you can legally "swap bodies"? Or is that sort 
of a grey area?


Case in point, I have TWO 1987 Fiero SE / V6s. One is running and in 
excellent shape, but has a slightly damaged space frame. The other 87 Fiero 
SE is identical, also an 87, and an SE, but has no title. The car is a rats 
nest, but the steel space frame is 100% rust free. I was considering doing a 
COMPLETE restoration of my 87 SE (which was my first car) and basically 
cleaning up the rust free frame, and building it up from scratch with all 
the pieces from my nice 87 SE (including the VIN). I didn't want to risk it, 
so I just cut out the sheet metal from the frame I needed and cut up the 
rest of the untitleable car.


Just curious what you guys think... is it different by state? Or is this 
more of a federal issue?


Todd



----- Original Message ----- 
From: "George Lyle"
To: "DurocShark"
Cc: "Todd Super Bassist"
Sent: Sunday, June 11, 2006 10:25 PM
Subject: Re: [T2] 74 Rust Free Bus in CA for $80?

> Dang, and I want a no-smog '74 bay to play with.  However, the lack of
> title is a deal-killer for me.  I've had too much hassle with that sort
> of thing in the past to attempt it again.  There's ususally a bad reason
> why there's no title.
>
> George
