To: The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sun, 11 Jun 2006 23:25:45 -0400
Subject: Home from BusFusion - (maybe not so) Short trip report

Hi Volks,

It was cold, wet and windy. And the bus did not get to or from the  
event unscathed, either. But we had a great time regardless, hanging  
out with new bus friends from close to home and catching up with old  
friends from far afield.

I got there on Thursday and set up camp on the site my parents had  
staked out a couple hours earlier... Frank Condelli gave me the gears  
a bit for bringing a Vanagon to BusFusion 2 years in a row, but I  
assured him that once again I would ALSO have a Baywindow on my  
campsite when Colleen arrived with the kids. Dad and I put up the  
white sky and jockeyed the buses into position along the shoreline. I  
put the canoe to use dredging a picnic table out of the river and we  
set it under the white sky to Dry, then we watched a DVD with the  
Best Family that chronicled their tour of North America last summer  
in their synchro westy. Glacier National Park, Yukon, BC, South  
Dakota.... they had one heck of a trek, and it was an impressive DVD.  
They left me a copy and I will be sure to bring it to Jitterbug and  
BOTC for screenings.

Friday was a nice day off... the weather was unruly, but it was fun  
to watch the buses roll in. Mike Droulliard brought Murphy out to  
camp and we found him a space where he would be able to bolt should  
Our Nation need him. Mike also joined me in a "Fire Mission" after  
dinner... pretty soon he and I had a blaze going that even Frank  
Biffath would have been proud of. Which was a good thing, because it  
was wet and windy and not all that warm, either.

Then Colleen called.... She had left home at 6PM with the kids in the  
westfakia. When she called the shifter had locked into third. No  
other gear was possible; it was thoroughly jammed. I told her to limp  
on as best she could, and call back if she couldn't --- Cory had a  
tow dolly we could us if we had to. But as the bus was still mobile  
(kinda) I advised her to keep heading east... Worst case being that  
if it did quit completely we would have less distance to cover and  
she would wind up getting to camp quicker overall.

Well, she wound up getting to camp at about 1AM... but the last mile  
or so was done on a cable. Getting into Almonte is not that easy to  
do in 3rd gear, and the clutch had taken a severe beating in trying  
to make that happen. Next morning (Saturday) I found the problem...  
It was a linkage issue rather than the transmission. But there was  
still some damage to the driveline... you could smell cooked clutch  
on that bus from a mile away. There was also a new sound in the mix;  
the throwout bearing was singing a very sad and plaintive song. You  
can still smell the clutch now; 44 hours and 200 miles later. The bus  
looked like it was driveable though, so I declared it a runner and  
decided to have a brew and relax.

Jamming on Saturday night was great... Doug Alcock & Phil Stevenson  
returned to the fray, as did our keyboardist from last year. We also  
had another guitarist join us but I am terrible at remembering names....

Sunday brought Breakfast Burritos, after which I grabbed a splitty  
and a eurovan and headed to the beach for a photo op... I had a mind  
to try recreating the busfusion logo using pure german steel. The end  
result was a near perfect rendition if you were standing in the right  
spot.

Original:
http://members.aol.com/busfusion2/graphics/tshirtdesigns/ 
pottslogo04a.jpg

German Steel:
http://www.busesofthecorn.com/BusFusion06StagedLogo.jpg

Once I had that done I left the buses there and went to the  
registration hall for the door prize giveaways. Everyone was well  
behaved (quiet) and the goods went out pretty quickly. I got  
opportunity to pimp Buses Of The Corn and to mention that there were  
some buses worth photographing on the beach. Then everyone left and I  
went back to the campsite to pack our gear and get headed home.

On the road.. the bus was not what it should have been. The clutch  
was slipping in third on the hill leading out of town. It was also  
grabbing in neutral. Over time it seemed like the slipping got less  
but the grabbing got worse, even after taking 10 turns of slack out  
of the cable during a lunch stop. Still, there aren't too many stops  
on that route if you time the lights right and I got home OK, only to  
have the clutch pedal drop to the floor about  two blocks from home.  
Looks like there's an engine drop in my future this week.

I was planning on swapping engines soon anyway; I have a spare 2L  
that shouldn't leak as much oil as the current one does.  Just wasn't  
planning that install quite as soon as this.

120 buses during a cold and rainy weekend is a pretty good turnout.  
Most surprising was that only a dozen were bays... this was the first  
campout I've ever seen where the Eurovans outnumbered us.

Many thanks to Frank and his Commitee for putting together such a  
great event!

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**  LY3H
1977 Sunroof Automatic L63H/L90D
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.busesofthecorn.com
