Date: Mon, 12 Jun 2006 01:14:51 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Todd Super Bassist <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] 74 Rust Free Bus in CA for $80?

On Sun, 11 Jun 2006, Todd Super Bassist wrote:

> I know this is a real sensitive subject for a few people, but I'm curious
> what really is the problem with swapping VINs on identical cars? I mean, all
> ethical subjectivism aside, what issues are there involved with swapping the
> VINs on two nearly identical cars? I mean, is there ever a situation where
> that would be allowed?

That would all depend upon the origin of the two vehicles.  Since you
legally bought the replacement dash from Busted Bus, who undoubtedly
legally owned the vehicle from which it came, then you are perfectly
entitled to move your old VIN plate to the new dash.

OTOH, with the Fiero, do you have legal ownership of the "no-title"
vehicle?  If so, you are morally in the right, even if you are technically
outside the law.  You're simply replacing parts with other parts that you
own.  How many parts you replace is beween you and your conscience, with
the state looking over your shoulder if you let them know what is going
on.

However, how did that "title-less" Fiero get that way?  Most vehicles of
this sort seem to get that way through not-so-moral means and even if you
"rescued" the vehicle it may well be that someone else might still
have a legal claim to it.

There seems to be a brisk business in titles and VIN plates at swaps.
While some of these might be used to fix titles that are "catch-22d" by
state laws, I'm willing to bet that most of them are put on buses that are
flat-out stolen.  That just isn't right.  Some people aren't even subtle
about it, putting an early bay VIN on a late bay bus, for example.

As I have said before, it's remarkable how flexible the law can be.  It is
quite common to have an entire new antique airplane built around an old
data plate (the aircraft equivelent of a VIN).  The new airplane shares
absolutely _no_ parts with the airplane that the data plate came from, yet
it is perfectly legal as long as it conforms to the original design.  The
same obviously doesn't apply to cars!
