From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Bus Gypsy <busgypsy(-at-)msn.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 4 Sep 2002 11:16:13 -0700 
Subject: RE: [T2] Busses & NADA

  I have a customer going through the insurance bull right now. His
insurance company DOES NOT accept the NADA book for a price or value, I
won't go into the reason why. I am currently having to reprint all of his
invoices for the last 2/3 years while he did the resto and he is gathering
all of his other reciepts from other vendors to prove what he has put into
it. The bummer is his time is worthless according to them. The next step for
him was to get comps (buses that HAVE sold) to prove the real value, not
what is out there for sale.  He is just trying to get replacement value, I
told him to check with other insurance companies as I have never heard of
such a run around. 
  I am currently switching all of my VW's insurance over to Pollmans
Insurance (562  493  4411 ). They will insure 3 of my VW's for
$275 dollars a year, full coverage, 250 deductable, no mileage limit and you
are allowed to drive to work once in a while. A great policy and price

ronnie 
  

-----Original Message-----
From: Bus Gypsy [mailto:busgypsy(-at-)msn.com]
Sent: Wednesday, September 04, 2002 10:23 AM
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [T2] Busses & NADA




If the insurance company actually would pay you book this value would be 
great.  Problem is they do not.  When the DMV wants your money, they use 
this pice, but when u are looking to get money from insurance on your 
totalled bus, they do not.  Not to mention the insurance company spiking the

cost of your insurance because you have an antique, and it will cost more to

repair.  Seems that you spend money in court to fight with insurance if you 
get in a wreck, pay DMV more money because of the book value, and originally

paying more on your insurance because it is classic. Almost looks like an 
Enron type thing! So how exactly is this high value helping me?  Seems like 
that little extra I may or may not get from my insurance is payed for with 
initial fees.  Money just moved from point A to point B.  I thought blue 
book would reflect what the market will pay.  Today I looked through many of

my classified sites, and this is not even a close reflection to market 
value.  There are even vintage splits right now for sale for less than 3k 
which are in better than fair condition. BTW, I have been collecting toys 
for about 15 years. Fair condition or low value in every other collectible 
market is pretty crappy.  Yet blue book seems to go by their own rules. 
?????????     B.G.








According to NADA a "LOW" condition vehicle is an ORIGINAL Vehicle requiring
just minor reconditioning--or an older restoration--"Low" according to NADA 
is Not a beater. I will take what ever "Heat" there is out there.Must
have a way to protect our older VWS!!


