From: "John Flowers" <flowersj(-at-)gallatinriver.net>
To: "Michael Benthin (MUTS)" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>,
Cc: <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Wed, 4 Sep 2002 19:39:43 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: [T2] Re: [VB] tent storage

Folding will weaken the fabric if the tent is stored folded for a number of
years in improper conditions.
My westy tent is stored in its carry bag under my bed upstairs in my
bedroom. It slips easily under the bed and there is no moisture or rodent
problem. My second choice would be the attic, but never the basement or the
garage. My wife and I collect antique quilts some of which have been stored
for decades folded along the same lines and under varying conditions, the
same rules that apply to these items apply to tents:
1. No moisture.
2. No cement floored storage
3. Do not store in a plastic bag; as this traps moisture inside the bag with
the tent.
4. Air the item out every few months, just take the tent out and spread it
over the kitchen table, dining room floor or even drape it over the couch
just to let the canvas breathe.
I once was forced to take my tent down in the rain, everything was soaked
and it was in the late fall near freezing conditions. I borrowed some space
in a friends workshop and set the tent up inside the building.
I put a ceramic furnace inside the assembled tent and it dried in less than
eight hours.
A friend of mine had the same problem, he went to a local auto service shop
he frequented, they let him assemble his tent in one of their service bays
while they were closing for the day. He put an oscillating fan inside the
tent and met the shop owner the next morning as he was opening for business.
The tent was dry and ready to take down.
When I bought my '66 Westfalia, the man from whom I bought the bus had owned
it for over twenty years and had never used the tent. He had a dome tent
that his family used while camping. Before I took the bus, I took all the
tent stuff out and assembled the tent and then hooked it to the bus. I set
up the windows and staked out all the lines, opened up the awning for the
door and everything. The seller came along and said "If I had known how nice
it was, I would have used this instead." (I'm glad he didn't).
Hope some of these tips help.
John Flowers

Mike Benthin wrote:

> Tents want to be dry.  Vented Attics are a good choice, not basement.  I
> wonder if creases stored for a long time don't weaken the fabric?
>


