Date: Thu, 05 Sep 2002 15:31:59 -0400
From: Benoit Huot <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: cooling flap $ rings

Good day's guys and girls,

Another 2 important questions! (Cylinders rings and fan flap /
thermostat)

I have a 1700cc (core for sure but maybe with 1.8 heads and pistons, not
sure yet), the engine works fine with no leaks. (Starts fine, with what
I think!!! good power, more torque in third gear than my previous 87GL)
But from the PO words, compression is 95psi (didn't have time too check
compression myself) on # 3 (related to my question below)
Like I said yesterday, it's a reman engine by VW, no info on the years
of this one. Carburetors are (2 Solex 32-34) are standard (I have 2 more
for spare parts, basically I have complete second 1973 bus in engine
parts including complete core with pistons but no cylinder, 4 x 1700cc
spare heads, oil cooler, fan housing, 2 x alternator, 1 x starter, a
turbine style heating system!!! and so on + 5 boxes of various parts)
but no spare cylinder!!!!! Damn!

First let me tell you that this van will do a lot of mileage next
winter, I am planning on leaving Montreal-Canada across the States on to
Mexico, on my way back in March I will visit the Grand canyon, Texas and
California. I will bring 1 spare head and many other parts.

My 2 questions:
If compression is 2 low on #3 I am thinking of putting new rings first
before buying new cylinder and pistons, I would also level-off/sand the
cylinders (sorry, I know there is a name in English for that job but I
don't remember this one), you should also know that this Bus was in a
heated garage on blocks for 11 years (wife of PO had Cancer) so I
suspect partial rings seizure, for now oil consumption very low, about
1/4 quart (I only did 700 miles with it yet).
What is your experience with new rings on a flat-4.  Any other
suggestions.

Second:
I don't have any cool-air flap system on the fan housing, no thermostat
either (direct flow to the heads). I have 2-flap system and 3
thermostats in my garage.  Many told me that they were a must!!!! to
cool of the oil cooler, the engine will run a lot hotter without the
flap system???? So what I did this morning is installed the flap and
thermostat (just to see) on my spare engine, well that's working fine if
I boil the thermostat. What I don't understand is that if the thermostat
fails in the close position (when cold) the flap stays close!!!
What is your experience about that subject?
Ps.: my friend as a 72 without flap & thermostat and he as been driving
this van like that for a few years!!! Compression on his engine is
120psi +-10.

Thank you very much for your help, Regards, Ben
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm


