From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 30 Aug 2001 10:52:01 EDT
To: prosser(-at-)bellatlantic.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] What Gives?

oops, actually I have been doing the drivers side replacement. sorry, 
mistyped it.   But for removing the passenger side section from croner seam 
to just behind cargo doors, hm been there, think I pulled the tank first. 

 Hey you want to save the tank-push that rubber grommet around the neck into 
the engine area.   if the motor is out you just undo those 13mm bolts and 
loosen the straps,  remove gas line and pull tank.  Drain first, so bring 
some cans with you.

   Okay, remove rear cargo door.   (impact, BFH, ratchet.  I finally adjusted 
my squeeky rear cargo door yesterday.  I used the impact with the largest 
screwdriver bit on it a few weeks ago and soaked it in liquid wrench, just 
like muir says.  It loosened one screw. So I used the impact again yesterday, 
then the ratchet on the screwdriver tip thing, pressing intowards the screw 
so the bit does not slip while turning the ratchet.  SO I got the other 3 
free and removed them one at a time, and replaced them with nice ones and 
cleaned out the threads, and adjusted it so It does not squeek.  WOw, life is 
good.    

  You decide whether to cut abovethe roof or just above the beltline.  I had 
cut out this corner/side there from a toast 60 DD panel -above the roof, but 
it ended up going on someone elses bus, and he wanted the piece with the 
panel vents above the belt line, but now I am still wanting that piece for my 
61 15 window. cut just above the beltline anyone? Mine has 25 year old bondo. 
no rush, no rush at all.   

so then it is rusted through at the bottom of the rocker, so you dont need to 
cut there.  Is the corner bad?  are you saving the corner and the side vent 
area both or just the side.  So if just the side. cut just behind the corner  
 seam.  but there is that reinforcemnt/inner cover to the engine area intake 
vent area, and it messes up sawsall blades to swa the tip into something.  So 
be careful

 If both, cut into the floor of the over engine area from back hatch along to 
front, cut wheel well.  Even if you dont need the corner , but it is nice, 
remove the whole section.  You can go buy a spot weld drill bit and drill out 
the spot welds later.  Spot weld drill bits are cool.  they are a tiny circle 
with a guide point in the middle, they cut a little circle around the spot 
weld, and the piece of metal come apart.  :) 

 What year is your bus?

 In a message dated 8/30/01 1:42:18 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
prosser(-at-)bellatlantic.net writes:

> 
>  <<one of the projects I have been working on is replacing the passnger
>  side
>  panel from the corner seam to just behind the reinforcement  in front of
>  the
>  vents, down to including the wheel well. >>
>  
>  What a coincidence. Yesterday I began the painstaking process of pulling
>  such a panel out of a donor bus. Mine, too had been crunched, and while
>  it is not too bad, the vent got twisted amd I knew I would never be able
>  to get it back straight. Also, the wheel well is a pretty ugly sight. So
>  I took this sawzall to the donor bus, but what a pain. Didn't get it
>  completely out. Still have to cut the inner wheelwells and such. But my
>  big problem is the gas tank filler neck.  Can I Cold chisel around this
>  thing? I don't know if there is gas in there. Should I fill it with
>  water? I would like to try and salvage the tank and as many other sheet
>  metal and other parts as possible. Otherwise, i might just cut through
>  the filler neck. But I suppose I should still fill the tank with water
>  to keep from going boom. Haha, If only I could get the gas cap off!
>  
>  You should have seen this bus. All covered in ivy and surrounded by
>  trees. Way past restoration. Looked almost as bad as Thoms 23 window :)
>  !!
>  
>  Les
