From: mattroberds(-at-)home.com (Matt Roberds)
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 25 Nov 2001 04:14:51 +0000
Subject: Re: [VB] Alternator question EMERGENCY

>From: Denis Dodson <coocoo70(-at-)swbell.net>
>Date: Sat, 24 Nov 2001 10:34:29 -0800
>
>I put my new engine in the '63 Sundial. When I fired
>it up the alternator will start to charge (13 on the
>Vmeter), but when I roll out of the garage the VDO 
>volt meter goes only very slightly to the charge and
>if I turn on the lights it goes strong to the discharge,
>and the Gent light glows dully.

Does revving the engine in Neutral make the generator
light go out?  If it does then everything is probably
fine.  Most alternators will charge at a lower RPM than
most generators, but both devices have a minimum RPM
below which they will not charge.  I have driven brand
new cars of various makes and you can almost always
watch the headlights get a bit brighter when you put it
in Neutral and rev the engine.

Also, a volt meter doesn't usually indicate charge
and discharge.  It goes from 0 to 15 volts or so and
indicates the total system voltage.  While it is true
that anything over about 12.5 V DC is a charge and
anything under that is a discharge, they aren't usually
marked this way.  Ammeters, on the other hand, usually
are marked with discharge and charge, like -30 to 0 to
30 amps.  They tell you whether the net flow of current
is in to or out of your battery.  This probably isn't
critical to your problem, but it might help you 
understand what your gauges are telling you.

The belt is nice and tight, but I know you checked
that already.  :)

Make sure all the ground connections and straps are
in good order - is the alternator strapped tightly
to the stand?  Stand bolted tightly to the case?
Ground strap at transmission nose securely attached?
Ground strap at battery securely attached?  Also make
sure the alternator output wire is well-connected at
the alternator and at the starter.  When you replaced
the wires, you used wires at least as thick as the
originals, right?

If you have a multi-meter (not just a voltmeter in
the dash), you can use it to check out your charging
system.  With everything shut off, a fully charged
battery should measure 12.6 volts at the battery
terminals.  With the engine running and the alternator
charging, the voltage as measured at the battery
terminals should go up at least a volt (to 13.6 volts)
and usually more.  You may have to rev the engine a
little before the alternator starts charging, but it
should definitely start charging by the time you have
the engine at 2000 RPM or so.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
