From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 26 Nov 2001 09:08:16 -0500
Subject: Maiden voyage! -Kinda long with oil and electrical musings.

Volks,
First off, thanks to all who assisted with valuable advice, saving me time,
mistakes, and money with this project. After about 9 months of work, I
finally have a stock height bus, running pretty well. There are, of course,
things to attend to, like after I park, a small puddle of trans fluid
appears, then stops leaking, so maybe a boot needs a tightening?

My engine woes seem to have left, but I will keep a careful watch on valve
lashes, be ridiculous with my oil change frequencies I figure about n+1 on
the gas tanks, one change at one tank, then another at two, then a third at
3 tanks later from the second...Then to detergent oil.....

Mounted up the engine cover in the rear, to properly seal the engine
bay....Next is bumper....
Electrical demons were not fully exorcised, I need to complete the 12v
conversion, which will be with two solid state voltage drops ala NQ, for
clock and wipers, unitl I score 12v components.
Need to fix ground at drivers rear light, and debugg the dead pass
headlight, as bulb was good. I need to play under the dash for a while, glad
I have the 12v relay box....
I think I was most pleased to get the dome lights working, I hate when they
don't work on cars... :)
Brakes were great for drums, becuase they are huge and I was gentle on the
fresh unfamilar surfaces, so going great.
Close on alignment, but to get the setting and drag link right, gonna need
the rack at Lehmans on 100, I guess this spring....

Although I really got ripped on this bus purchase last year, I had the
oppurtunity to learn ALOT about this bus, and how it works, plus develop the
tools needed, I know what I need to carry to fix her, and what spares might
be good, plus I begin with almost all new components....Expect the
generator, I put new brushes in it, and you know what!? The bearings are as
loud as hell!!!! So, I learn the in situ generator replacement soon!

Happy hoilidays to all, and thanks for your help to beat this PA winter,
Finally (bussing AND fixing) instead of just fixing.....
Al




