From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 26 Nov 2001 6:44:11 -0800
Subject: tranny lurch..help!

i could use any suggestions for the remedy of a problem i have encountered
recently.
here's my dilemma: upon acceleration in first gear, the bus lurches, quite
noticeably. when shifting into second, it lurches less. in third/fourth,
not noticeable, which i'm attributing to the vehicle's momentum. it is not
engine related. i jacked the back up and felt approximately 30mm (1.5
inches or so) at the outer edge of the wheel, freeplay before the gears (in
the reduction box?) seem to engage. (i jacked my '59 (small nut) up and
there was no noticeable freeplay in it.) i have not jacked up my bus with
large nut rgb's to check for comparison, but i remember large nut rg's to
be a little sloppy.

here's the poop of what has ben done: the bus is a '65 westy, low mileage.
tranny replaced due to popping out of gear. replaced with a new freeway
flyer tranny, all new fulcrum plates with correct side clearance in the
spider gear/axle/fulcrum plate carrier. axles showed no signs of wear on
the ends. large nut reduction box assemblies. all recently new rgb
bearings. all new nos german tranny mounts, tightened in the correct
sequence. springplate/rgb's torqued to correct torque in correct sequence.
there is no wear on the brake drum or axle splines, axle nuts torqued to
upper-end of torque range. very recent german heavy duty pressure plate and
german disc, neither showing any signs of wear. basically, any part showing
any wear has been replaced. the axles, bearings, upper gears were removed
during disassembly, but were marked and placed back in their original
orientation/position/side. upper gears/axle end splines are fine/not worn.
all brake components replaced with new, in other words, the brakes are not
binding. the clutch operating arm is a new heavy duty unit, the spring is
new and works fine. the wheels (14" with 195/14 tires) are torqued to the
drums. flywheel was removed to replace seal, and torqued with a
torquemeister to 35nm (25.8 ft lbs)-the torquemeister suggestion is 30 ft
lbs (40nm), but that gives it 270 ftlbs torque to the nut (a 9:1 ratio
according to the instructions), which is more than i like to give that nut,
hence the slightly lower setting. i also put a drop of loctite on the nut.

when assembling, i kept checking for signs of excessive freeplay, but did
not detect any. maybe at the drum, it isn't too much, but at the wheel it's
multiplied. i have seen this problem before about 6 years ago, but never
tore it apart to find the source, and the bus drove fine other than that.

anyone have any ideas what to check next to eliminate the lurching?











