Date: Tue, 12 Jun 2012 16:22:44 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Intermittent running problem with '77 L-jet

So this weekend was very frustrating for me with the '77.  I think in quiet
defiance for shodding her in Vanagon alloys, she began to rebel, and
unfortunately with the worst kind of problem, a very intermittent one, though
getting less intermittent.
 
So bear in mind she is just at 96k original
miles, total stock 49 state '77 L-get, manual tranny, no throttle switch,
obviously no O2 sensor, no cat.  All vacuum hoses in relatively good
condition, S boot as pliable as one can be, crack free.  Injectors new about
10 years but only 5000 miles ago with fuel ring hoses, points, condensor about
the same time, all good old Bosch, coil is original.  I tuned her up last
year/less than 500 miles ago.  I've not cleaned contacts on FI stuff in about
10 years.  Sat all winter, started every couple of months for about 5-10
minutes, had filled tank to brim and put in Stable for the overwinter.
 
Scenario goes like this, and perhaps may first have occured once 2 years ago,
certainly 1-2 last year.  Driving along minding own business, sudden cutout of
power.  Not entirely though, not like total ignition failure, more like if
anyone is familiar feels like a Digifant vanagon hitting the rev limiter
(though not as rough), or a FWD 90s VW ECM going suddenly then coming out of
limp home mode, sort of a sudden stuttering loss of most all power, but
despite that description doesn't feel ignition'y as it isn't rough or erratic,
just power gone.  Initial times 1-2 years ago, probably lasted 5-10 seconds,
then right on like nothing wrong.  This year got her out of storage 3-4 weeks
ago, happened once the same as before after I'd driven it about 150 miles, so
tossed in a can of isopropyl HEET and filled it up thinking
perhaps condensation from the winter in the tank.  Drove another 250-300
miles, happened once more, worse, and this time it was sort
 of an off acceleration thing and I wondered if it was related as I was
probably in a situation where decel valve activated.  I pulled up a slight
grade from a stoplight giving it good power, probably had shifted to 3rd, then
went around bend into downhill slight grade, probably lifted from 3-3500 rpm
and shifted to 4th, and it happened.  Worse than previously, power gone, then
bucking on and off, probably lasted 30-40 seconds, then fine for rest of 15
miles home.  Did get better when I had leveled out, whether it had anything to
do or just time, who knows.  In retrospect I tried to recall if previous times
had similarly been off throttle on decel, but I don't know.
 
So on friday
started out for camping weekend, Was again stopped at a light, turned onto
level road, just normal driving away, probably was making the 2 to 3 shift,
happened again, not as bad, but bucked once, lasted 20 seconds.  Went to an
ATM, then headed for the major road out of town with wife a bit nervous, was
driving along steadily around 40mph in 3rd, and she just died totally.  Pulled
over restarted rough, jerky, died.  Restarted a bit better, drove home.  Whole
thing probably 60 seconds with the restarts.  Today she starts and drives just
fine.  I know this is going to be a PITA needle in haystack thing.  I pulled
fuel filter, blew it out backwards into a cup, no water or sediment, put it
back as I can't find my spares, got one on order local.  Fuel pump is
original, I have a couple shelf spares that were fine when I pulled them but
have been sitting dry for 10 or more years.  I do sort of from the one
occurence wonder about the decel
 valve, but even if sticking open (which I don't think actually happens) I'd
think it would just act as if the throttle were depressed wouldn't it, the air
is metered after all.  I had previously wondered about the AFM perhaps
sticking intermittently, it moves as freely as any, and I'm loathe to pull the
cover on it as it is stock, only has 96k miles on it, an I don't figure it the
issue.
 
I'm open to any smart thoughts, will probably start with connector
cleaning and fuel system and go from there otherwise.
 
John
