Date: Sun, 17 Jun 2012 23:58:05 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: '77 intermittent running problem fixed???

Well we'll see.  Didn't really do much of anything.
 
Replaced the fuel
filter, when I cut her open looked pretty damn clean.  Realized that gas
really stings for some reason now days compared to years ago (ethanol
content???) when my line clamp pliers sprung off and dumped a gallon or so
onto me, soaking my hair, shirt, the cardboard I was lying on before I could
recover and stop it since I hadn't jacked the bus and was wedged under in the
wrong position to stop the flow.  Made me glad that I had made the choice to
wait until the morning to do the work outside instead of in the garage the
night before.  With gas I'm always concerned for just this sort of event,
years ago had a friend burn his house down doing something similar.
 
Then the
likely solution if my problem is solved.  I pulled all the FI connectors
(except the aux air valve as I just couldn't get it off in situ) gave em
squirts with my favorite cleaner/lube CRC 2-26, and put em all on an off
several times.  Did everything including the fuel pump, double relay, ballast
pack, all the multipin connectors, the temp sensor and the grounds.  Nothing
looked really bad at all.  The grounds to the case were perhaps a bit gritty,
and one side of #3 injector connector was a bit discolored, perhaps indicating
a ground issue as well, I didn't track which side it was.  The connectors on
the coil were  perhaps a tad gritty and I tightened all of those spades a
smidge on reinstall.  But nothing covered with corrosion or smoking gun dirty.
 
Drove it yesterday about 100 miles with many starts and stops to go to
Anchorage for a show, and take the 5yo swimming in a salt water pool with nary
an issue.  But since it was an intermittent issue to begin with, I'm not 100%
comfortable.  I've decided on long trips I'll carry my "recovery Weber" with a
low pressure pump, in addition to the spare dizzy, coil, and one of my old
shelf FI pumps that I've already tossed in.  Best way to ward off evil spirits
and all.
 
Thanks for all of the suggestions folks.
 
John
