Date: Tue, 19 Jun 2012 11:49:23 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Anyone found an aftermarket scissors jack that works

I do second a little 6-10 ton bottle jack, but I will say that they usually
require a good solid 4" lift under them (I use a solid concrete 8x8x4" block)
and they are a bit tippy when at full lift, and have a small pad area, can't
be used under the rear axle beam.  Though not much more tippy than the stocker
so all that said, they work just fine if you carry the block and use em in the
right place.  I'd also hazard to guess that my Suburban (probably same for any
'89-'98 Chevy/GMC truck) scissor would work just fine.  Has loads of lift
range, and is obviously more than up to the task if it can lift the corner of
a 6000+ lb rig.  Has a fair sized ground footprint for such things, and the
pad area would work well (on my 3/4 ton jack) under the reinforcement strap
that crosses the frames at the outriggers, or probably fine under any spot of
frame.  Should be dirt cheap (I'd hope less than $20) in any yard.  I think
either the 1/2 ton model (marked 10
 usually) or the 3/4 ton version (marked 20) would work fine, the pad on the
1/2 ton version would be more suited to use at any point on the frame or under
the rear axle beam.  The only downside I see is that you need to also then
carry the "hook" that cranks them and the handle for the hook, and all that is
getting to be a load of crap.  I've had some fullsize Buick scissors in the
past that had a 3/4" nut drive, which would be more ideal as then lug wrench
would fit it.   I"d go to a pick and pull and look at any 80-90's GM made car
or truck and bet you can find something if you go that way.
 
John


-----
Original Message -----
From: courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
 
As much as
I love my bus, I'm loathe to use the stock VW jack because my bus has seen
better days in the jack point area, and is waiting me to weld in all the new
parts. Has anyone found a scissors style jack that can be used under the frame
area or on the beam etc to change a flat? I would love to find one in a
junkyard from a vehicle that has a big enough scissors style. Has anyone ever
found one suitable, and if so, what vehicle did it come from?
