Date: Tue, 19 Jun 2012 22:04:53 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>, type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] vanagon long block in to bay window tribulations

No real issues, sort of...  As I recall, and Dolan had a www page somewhere I
thought...
 
First and obvious, unless you got a '79 exhaust system, you
aren't going to have heat without a lot of effort to plumb vanagon boxes, in
point of fact pretty impossible/improbable without mucho work.  And to keep
the vanagon boxes even if you rigged something down to them, would need to
plug bus fan shroud ports.  People do run the vanagon shroud for better
cooling on bigger T4's, perhaps one could run the alternator and modify the
tin there, I've never looked at that closely.
 
So you need a plan for exhaust
('79 boxes or head swap) and alternator (bus presumably with bus shroud.)
 
Dipstick, keep both (ie. make sure you get the vanagon one, it is quite
acessible) or drive a tapered pin in with some JB weld on it.
 
Oil filler is
not an issue, use the bus one.
 
Engine bearer holes tapped M10, overdrill
your bearers or helicoil the holes but it will be a double helicoil I think I
recall.  The vanagon bolts are too long, have a good metric hardware place at
hand.
 
Breather, get the vanagon one or you got to rig something over the
flared snub.
 
That is it as I recall.  Only the exhaust/head issue is a real
problem.  For anyone so interested BTW I have a German NOS '79 box BTW, don't
recall which side, bought from BD 12-15 years ago, would part with it for what
I gave at the time ($299 same as Dansk currently and this is VW German.)
 
Sure nothing wrong/problematic if the Vanagon mill is solid low mile, and you
got a good source for a '79 exhaust on the cheap or intended a new one $$
anyway.
 
John


----- Original Message -----
From: Jamie
<jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
 
can you remind me what things
will give me grief when attempting to install a long block from a Vanagon into
a bay window
anyone done this.. would you recommend it?
