From: John Kolak <jkolak(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Fri, 22 Jun 2012 23:07:43 +0700
To: t2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Boiled Plastic

I just got this in today's mail. They also have a lot of VW parts at
wholesale liquidation prices:

Boiled Plastic

Tired of breaking the old, brittle plastic clips that hold on exterior
and interior trim? Worried that the plastic thermostat housing will
either leak or crack after being over tightened? Hoping for a way to
rejuvenate the yellowed plastic gears, slides and rollers in that
window regulator? Having trouble sliding the plastic handles onto the
metal rods that came with that new foosball table? The answer to these
and other plastics conundrums is an elixir available at the nearest
kitchen sink.

My dad was a plastics engineer for 30+ years. One of the best tips he
has given me thus far is to rejuvenate and limber up old and new
thermoplastic polymers by soaking them for a minute or so in boiling
water. The results with nylon can be especially dramatic. Yellowish
nylon goes into the water brittle and comes out supple and milky
white. New composite thermostat housings, foosball table handles, and
other plastic pieces that must be mounted to metal become slightly
more flexible and are an easier and better fit.

The boiling water does not melt the plastic. Soaking nylon in room
temperature water for a long time has the same impact as a short bath
in boiling water. The chemistry is too complex for just the son of a
plastics engineer to explain. Basically the moisture releases tension
between polymer molecules that was created when the plastic was first
made (molded, extruded, etc.) or that built up over time as the
plastic was exposed to sunlight, heat, chemicals or otherwise aged.

Over the years I have only seen good results from putting my plastic
parts in boiling water. At worst the plastic seems unaffected,
probably a thermoset plastic (rigid body parts, distributor caps,
Bakelite, etc.). However, there are myriad plastic resin recipes and
plastic products out there and I must include a disclaimer and
encourage common sense and caution. Do not soak plastic pieces that
include electronics, gaskets, lubricants, paint, adhesives, decals,
etc. that are not supposed to be exposed to water. Do not bring a
plastic part out of a freezing garage and immediately dunk it into a
boiling pot of water. Thin, molded plastic pieces like interior trim
or milk jugs might lose their shape if exposed to heat. Heat and
moisture from boiling water might not be uniformly transferred through
very thick plastic pieces. If you are at all concerned about the
temperature of boiling water, then maybe instead try soaking the
plastic piece in unheated water for a day or two. Dont boil a greasy
composite valve cover in your spouses favorite spaghetti kettle

Tom Taylor,
RockAuto.com
