From: "Chuck& Lauri" <cmeanley(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: "John Anderson" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>, "type 2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Sat, 23 Jun 2012 19:44:33 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: [T2] re Steve Dolan

 he had a nice 1968 bay (green?) with
> the small pop-top and SO-44(?) interior.  I love that combination; it was 
> a
> sweet bus.

    If my memory serves me, it was a 69, blue with green hand prints and a 
world painted on it. The best I could figure out at the time is that it was 
a European  delivery with the bench seat.
I had to sell it quickly when life took a left turn in Cali. Nikki bought it 
from me minus motor or trans which is how I bought it. Nikki sent me some 
pics of when she and Steve got it running
but they vanished in a hard drive crash and I cant find any pics of it in my 
archives.

    The last mail I got from Steve was in regards to that bus. After getting 
Johns email, been trying to think when I first came across Steve. Of course, 
way back when, when I first signed on to the type 2
list, Steve was an active admin. as the list generated massive amount of 
mail and I expect trying to maintain order was some akin to herding cats. No 
I was trying to remember when I first physically met him,
and as he was east coast and us west, there weren't many opportunities. I 
believe it was when Nikki organized a bbq for him at San Pedro so a bunch of 
us could meet face to face for the first time.

    I only have a couple pics of the event and I was trying to find one 
Steve might have been in, no such luck. It was also the first time I met 
Karl, here was this guy wandering the parking lot checking out the buses,
and like the easter bunny, leaving a surprise in each one. In my case, a 
clip for a westy table.  While I was digging, trying to find a pic from San 
Pedro, did manage to find the one of the type 2 group at Buses by the 
bridge.
this musta been around 2000 and its a pretty good group of us.

    I'm thinking there must be some pretty good bench racing going on in 
Heaven.

ps. if anybody has some pics of that bus, I'd love some copies.

Chuck
Van Is. 
