From: "Joe Luther" <jluther(-at-)alfons-haar.us>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 24 Jun 2012 14:27:09 -0400
Subject: Ok, now comes the hard part - wiring

After a summer of a graduation, a confirmation, and an Eagle Scout process,
I'm somewhat back on task.  

I should finally have the tin and fan and motor mount bar puzzle solved in
the next few weeks for my 1974 AW code engine that is destined for my 72
(build date 10/71) bus.  I bought it this way, engine laying in the back,
I'm told it has a rebuilt case and heads, everything else was off and it's
all back together except for the new intake and carbs and some of the tin.
I'm a lot more used to uprights but the bus is mostly rust free so I bit on
it and the Type 4 engine.  

I've started looking at the engine area wiring harnesses and comparing them
to the Bentley manual, taking an inventory of what I have to work with.  I
am lucky enough to have a Bentley old enough to have the colored harness
diagrams and I've puzzled some of it out.  I think I'm missing some of the
coil harness but that could be because the PO had a single carb and a lot of
that harness is the twin carb stuff.   I also have some PO "add on" wiring
to sort out.  

I noticed the crank sensor is 3 wire (has a ground shown)  on the 74 with 3
test points versus the 72's 2 wire setup.  Will this be a problem, do I need
to swap sensors?  

While looking underneath by the starter, I saw a clip attached to the body
just above the starter and another clip behind the starter and more towards
the center of the bus.  I assume the gas tank line goes in one of those
clips and maybe the positive cable from the starter goes into the other?
Right now, the positive cable is fished through a hole in the body which
seems iffy for a current carrier.  The gas line is hanging free, which is
never good.  Can someone tell me how that should be routed?

It appears to me to be a whole lot easier to sort out the harness for the
lights and all that with the engine out.  I'm thinking about making a jumper
wire with an inline switch and fuse to the battery positive terminal or
maybe just install a cutoff on the battery and try to tie into the harness.
Has anyone done this and have any thoughts on it?

And finally....on the Bentley schematics, the orange test points circles are
simply places I can tie into the harness central plug T20, correct?  When
the schematic shows a wire terminating in a test point, that doesn't mean
that wire coming off of that device physically terminates in T20, it just
tells me what point in T20 to monitor because the harness already has a
connection to T20 and the device.   Am I right?

I work for a German machine company so I'm used to wiring schematics being a
mere suggestion of how things are connected.  That said, I don't have a lot
of free time so I'm hoping to do this somewhat economically time wise.

Thanks in advance for suggestions and input.

Joe
