From: "Troy" <troy(-at-)wicals.com>
To: <ballantiner(-at-)uncw.edu>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Apr 2002 11:46:26 -0400
Subject: RE: [T2] Gathering group to help engine drop  (Troy's bus)

Ill hold off on the trade for now...:)  One problem is the wife is
pregnant at near 30 weeks and with possible pre-eclampsia.  So I am not
sure that I would be able to get too much out of her right now.  And
would not expect much.  I guess the reason that I am so worried is that
one, I don't know how the whole engine works.  I know the concept, and
what a lot the thing do, but the whole picture is far from there.
Cracking that case to replace the seal is also something that I have
really no idea about.  What part is the case?  (Its that bad.)  I have
new fuel lines and injector seals in route to me right now from Busted
Bus, so that should help out a lot.  They need to be replaced.  The
other thing is that looking through the Bentley, I don't quite have all
the parts, nor the money to purchase them.  Sucks being the only one
bringing in the income.  Like I said though, if I have to I will try and
do it myself.  (Would just be much more comfortable with extra
experience hanging around.)  Thanks...I'll let ya know how it goes.

Troy Wical
troy(-at-)wicals.com
www.wicals.com
'78 Transporter


> or at someone elses.  The situation that I am in leaves me to
> try and do
> this on a weekend because it is my only mode of transportation.
> However, the bus will not make it much longer the way that it is and
> this needs to be done soon.  I am determined to get this done and if
> worse comes to worse, I will drop it at my house by myself.  (Knowing

Have a little faith in yourself.  Turns out that a wife makes a great
helper.  Dropping the engine is the easy part, just follow the Bentley
intructions.  Make sure you have whatever tools (and parts) that are
required to do your repair before you get started though.  
For me, it seemed that installation was a little more time consuming,
but I was being careful to the point of my wife calling me anal.  If
it's been awhile since your engine has been removed, it's a great time
to clean/replace the engine bearer bracket bolts.  Oh, check that fuel
line too.

I'd suggest pulling the engine Friday evening, that way you have time to
scrounge parts on Saturday if you come up short or break something
during the removal/repair.  

I'd love to help but it looks like I'll be replacing the timing belt on
my wife's Rav4 this weekend.  Trade ya...

Rob

 


