From: Adrian Pillow <Apillow(-at-)manh.com>
To: "Vintage Bus Mailing List (E-mail)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 30 Jul 2002 11:17:36 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Oil temps and FMBC thanks

Oh boy more cooling threads :)

According to Bruce Anderson: "220 is warm, 230 is hot, and 240 is too damn
hot."  Bruce is a very well respected Porsche dude and technical writer.
Now this usually brings up a little debate because he is specifically
talking about Porsches and not VWs.  Some claim the Porsche was designed to
run a little hotter than a T1.

From my experiences I like to keep it at a max cruising temp of 210F.  Once
it hit 220 and when I pulled over for gas the dipstick was too hot to hold
for 3 seconds, so too hot.  That 10 degrees really makes a difference from
my observations.

I want to claim that way back when on this list it was commonly accepted
that 210-220 was the max comfortable oil temp and to slow down or stop if it
gets higher.

Of course each gauge probably varies a little bit so always monitor your
dipstick when it is gas time on your T1s.

Some people claim that once a certain RPM threshold is broken, like 3600,
that the engine will heat up and you must back off below that RPM.  I think
if you add oil cooling devices you can cheat this threshold a little bit,
but be certain to monitor the head temps so they do not melt down.  Head
temp and oil temp are related, but far from an accurate indicator as to
substitute each other.

Compression is another lovely issue... And this is really tough!  The answer
is uncertain in my opinion.  I build my stock engines to 7.0:1 and have
great results.  The 6.5:1 is way to low which is what Berg preaches.  As a
general rule each point bump in compression will give you 4% more
horsepower.  Now once you factor in custom cams, better heads, better
exhaust, lighter valve train, and such you can easily start raising the CR
due to better efficiency.  Also if you add in really trick stuff like knock
sensors (see aircooled.net), fuel injection, electronic ignition and stuff
like that you can really have some fun.

In the end it comes down to:  Speed costs money, how fast do you want to go?
If you are okay cruising at 55-60 then stick with what you got...  if you
want to go 70 open up that checkbook because it is not a one step process...
Someone is going to scream "freeway flier" at that last comment, but then
you generally need a bigger motor = open checkbook...  Get rid of the RGBs
in an eliminator kit = open wallet for bigger engine and albatross adjusters
in the front.

I am just rambling now, but you get the picture :)


Adrian S. Pillow
1966 VW Microbus Westfalia "Biscuit"
1967 VW Microbus Standard/Westfakia "Dino" - For Sale
1979 Porsche 911 SC "Cochese" - For Sale 


