Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2010 10:15:21 -0500
From: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] compression

Kevin H Roberts wrote:
> Same problem, starts easily but won't idle or take a load.
Look it over for a vacuum leak too.

On my Beetle carbs I could unscrew the idle jets and clean them pretty 
easily. Also drain the bowl and note how much junk comes out with the 
gas. Disconnect the battery first of course. Not as well versed in 1.7L 
carbs. I used carb cleaner to squirt up into the idle jet holes to flush 
out any junk, same for the bowl drains. Italian gasoline used to include 
a powder dye to differentiate between grades of gasoline. Occasionally 
it would cake up and clog up the idle circuit. It didn't take much. 
Sometimes I could delay idle circuit unhappiness by using STP gas 
treatment. One bottle per tank for three tanks in a row. Might be good 
for another month or two.

Does your 1.7L have the stock dual carbs? Does it have the balance tube 
between them? Check the rubber lines at each end of that. Power brake 
booster hose leaking? The end on my hose was cracked on my '78. Seems 
like it was a cloth covered hose so the crack was hard to see. I use 
WD-40 with the red extension hose to spray here and there and search for 
leaks. Idle improvements indicate I found a leak. May not be an easy 
trick for you to use if you can't get it to idle at all.

For easy life with an old VW I recommend acquiring spare carbs and a 
spare distributor. When your carbs or distributor goes down, swap out 
the parts and then rebuild the "dead" parts at your leisure (out at 
sea). I did that a few times during my enlistment. Could not wait to get 
off the ship and go for a ride in my old VW or turn some wrenches on it. 
Some guys were in a rush to go party - I was eager to go tinker... Guess 
my priorities were mixed up... GRIN!

Just wish I had a Westy during my time in the Navy instead of a Beetle 
(which I still love). Would have been a nice way to "getaway" from the 
Navy for a day or two. Campsite + a grille + a beer + a movie or good 
book + feet up... My Beetle just carried my tent and sleeping bag for a 
different kind of getaway (really low rent).

Chris in TN
'78 VW Westy 2.7L (Corvair implanted)
'65 Beetle 2.0L (Type IV)
