Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2010 13:20:32 -0500
From: Gerald Livingston <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Normal voltage of a battery at rest?

On Fri, 19 Mar 2010 10:32:11 -0700
courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca> wrote:

> 1) What is a "healthy" battery voltage at rest??

Anything over 12 should be good. But, at 12.5 put a label on the change
jar that says "New Battery" and buy one when you have enough. Even
Optimas break down internally after enough years.

> 2) Is that too low a voltage to get my 33 yr old to crank reliably,
> so time for a hard start relay? It seems that if I crank it over when
> it's still dropping down right after a charge and showing 13+ volts
> it will fire quickly. At 12.38 very hesitant??? 

A hot start relay won't fix a slow turning starter or weak spark. The
hot start relay only provides battery voltage directly to the starter
solenoid to solve "click-no-turn" issues when warm. Not to the starter
motor to solve slow turning problems. You might want to replace the big
+ wire that goes from the battery to the starter and see if that helps.

I'm working on my new '70 camper now and one of the things I am doing is
adding a "relay box" in the engine compartment. It has 3 common 30/40
amp 5-pin (only 4 used) automotive relays (get them cheap by the
10-pack on *bay, get the wired sockets as well).

One is a "hot start" relay. I'll extend the starter wire into the
engine compartment to fire the relay and take 12V straight from the
battery, through the relay, to the starter solenoid. Straight run of
new #10 wire to give the starter every bit of voltage the battery has
available.

#2 will be an ignition relay. I'll pull the switched wire off of he
coil to fire that relay and, again, go straight from the battery to the
coil through the relay with a shorter, beefier, length of new wire. No
more weak spark because you're going through 30 feet of 40 year old #12
wire AND a switch to get from the battery to the coil that's 2 feet
away.

#3 I'm not sure I'll hook up until I decide to convert to an
alternator. It will be connected to the generator/alternator light
circuit and fire when the light goes off. It is intended to put
charging voltage on my aux batteries when the engine is running and
keep them completely out of the circuit when the engine is off. But, I
have 4x 92 amp-hour deep cycle aux batteries and I'm afraid I'll kill
the 38 amp generator trying to charge those up. I have an 80 amp RV
battery maintainer to charge them when I'm plugged in and that worked
well in the non-running Rivi that I'm moving hem from.

When I'm done with the relay box I'll be adding a multi-pin connector
that goes to the ignition and starter relays. Something like a 20 pin
connector should make it pretty difficult to guess which 4 wires to
short together. I'll make a matching box with a toggle switch and
push-button and a cable with the other side of the connector on it. If
I'm working at the back of the bus I just plug in the "test box" and I
can start the bus from the back without even needing the keys in the
ignition. 

Gerald
