Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2010 12:50:12 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Weber 32/36 DF*V

As I've said many times, for all the shit the 32/36 progressive gets on T4s
(and only on T4s BTW, that carb is/was sold for every single stinking less
than 6 cylinder vehicle made in the day and does well in countless
applications) I've never had a problem with it either.  When I was building
3-4 engines a year a well tuned 32/36 was my go to for break-in on the stand,
as I certainly was going to break my engines in on the stand, and certainly
wasn't going to put an FI system on em or screw with one of my sets of dual
carbs to do it.  And it is my go to "recover a not running bus due to FI
issues" setup as well, if I can't make an L-jet run in 20 minutes of
diagnosis, far easier for me at least to slap on the Weber.  Countless times
I've driven home a bus or vanagon with the quick installtion of my trusty
32/36.  Well tuned I don't think they do badly performance OR mileage wise on
a T4, and will run everything from 1700-2000cc out of the box with
 reasonable performance, but...  They ice, and they do have problems in the
cool/damp, like I've said in WV this was worse in the fall than any other
time.  I found this partially alleviated by using steel intake runner gaskets
for improved heat conduction to the runners, and then finally solved as I've
mentioned by installing a 12V electric "hot spot" from a Euro 1.9 waterboxer
single carb onto my weber center section.  Do I love FI, yeah, I love MS too,
but the "dread" 32/36 progressive powers plenty of buses just fine.  The 009,
well that I won't speak to, my carry dizzy for drag it home is an 050 which
works better IMHO on a T4 if you don't have a stocker at hand, but if it works
for you, let your experience not "common knowlege" be your guide.  And as I've
pmailed Kevin, it is a simple carb to take apart and clean/rebuild though the
kits are getting pricey.
 
John

--- On Fri, 3/19/10, Kevin H Roberts <kevin(-at-)bopsax.com> wrote:

Karl used to always wince and give me a hard time about using my Weber
progressive and especially the 009 distributor.  But it always worked so well
for me that I just couldn't bring myself to rip it out and try to get FI and a
new distributor working.  I've always been enamored with the thought of
Megasquirt as
