Date: Fri, 19 Mar 2010 15:02:46 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] gentling your battery

The most brilliant PhD electrical engineer I ever knew had some interesting
projects regarding batteries.  He had a couple lead acid batteries from the
60's in some of his collector vehicles that he still had going in the 90s when
I knew him.  He had built (in the 60s) circuitry to cycle them optimally as
well.  He also noted that most problems were actually mechanical as well as
electrical in nature, because apparently the lead sulphite? (the white crusty
stuff) that builds up has more volume than lead, just like rust on steel,
which causes microcracking and disruption that physically kills them.  He
noted one of the big 3 battery makers (of batteries not cars) apparently
marketed a "long life" battery in the 50s where the lead had some mechanical
reinforcement (he thought glass fiber actually) in the lead when it was cast
and the "composite" plates and batteries on total lasted nearly indefinitely. 
They stopped making them when they realized
 they were too good apparently.  He had refined his circuitry over the years,
and had used it in government applications in aerospace where we worked on
missiles for storage.  He also had been recharging regular old alkaline AA
batteries since the 70's, nearly indefinitely in life, long before the
"rechargeable" akalines came out with a scaled version of his circuitry.
 
But FWIW he did say floating one at trickle voltage was far better than
nothing.  The other trick he said, NEVER let a lead acid sit on a concrete
floor, he says the temp differential particularly with charging would kill em
fast.
 
This guy is the most brilliant guy I've ever met, and I got me a MS in
aero/mech engineering and a MD and all, and consider myself not an idiot, but
he is leaps and bounds smarter than I will ever hope to be.  "Brilliant Mind"
sort of smart (and he could easily be schizo as well actually, an interesting
eccentric brilliant guy.)
 
On another side, dad worked for AT&T for 40 years, over some of it maintaining
backup power plants at installations.  They also cycled their batteries.  I
know in the 80's the plant in Clarksburg WV still used genuine 1946-48 date
coded "submarine" batteries made by someone right after WW2 who started
selling their submarine batteries to the civilian world.
 
Anyway, all FWIW, YMMV, I just float mine with a trickler.
 
John


--- On Fri, 3/19/10, Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz> wrote:

(perhaps 13.5 V ?) when it has dropped to x (perhaps 11.5 V ?) is not so good
for battery longevity as one which actually discharges it to some
predetermined low voltage and then immediately takes it back up to whatever
has been set (by the charger mfr, I assume  -  these things aren't adjustable,
are they?).
    Something to do with minimising sulfation in the plates  ...

Opinions wanted; dogmatism will be effortlessly filtered out by David's daemon
8-)
