Date: Sat, 20 Mar 2010 06:53:56 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Rogers <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Living in my bus ..... update 2

Yesterday was another beautiful day at Caballo Lake.  Several very interesting characters stopped by, two from El Paso, both full of grim tales and news about Juarez, the city across the border, plagued by relentless crime and murder.  Another camper here has fashioned a small home on the back up a pickup truck ... it includes, believe it or not, a wood burning stove.  His name is Mike and he says he has lived in one fashion or another on the road since 1993.

In mid afternoon on this beautiful day, the sky suddenly darkened dramatically above the lake and mountains and a very strong wind blew in, ripping at my Westy tent, shaking it.  Inside, I spilled my tea as a gust shook violently the canvas.  It became a race to undo and dismantle the tent.

When it was over and snug in the bus, I went on line.  The computer began acting up, then failed. All efforts to resurrect it including wiping clean the hard drive failed.  I am using a borrowed computer to send this message.  I apologize profusely to all on the list who have so kindly written that their emails have vanished along with everything else --- music, books, photos --- and I will be less in communication until a new computer is acquired.

The good news:  before the storm I checked the mechanicals.  All of the valve adjusts were fine,  the #3 intake, not exhaust,  a little tight but still able to pass an 0.06" feeler gauge.  Timing had advanced a bit to 9 degrees BTDC at idle to 32 degrees at maximum advance.  I brought it back to 7.5 and 30 degrees.  (For the record, I'm still a points, not an electronic ignition, guy.) The oil ... a half quart added at 1500 miles ... was still full at 1900 miles, though no longer the color of honey is now more the color of maple syrup.  Good for at least another 600 miles.

So today the wind continues strong, the weather almost chilly.  I may look for a more sheltered spot where the tent will be less shaken .... and, oh yes, a computer.

Happy Busing,

John
