Date: Sun, 21 Mar 2010 00:28:34 +0100
From: Timo Schairer <timo.schairer(-at-)googlemail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Fi system, double relay, tank and Alaska (lenghty)

Hi all,
first, I want to thank everybody for their input concerning my
recently purchased FI system here in Germany. I'm quite glad and
overwhelmed about the input you're giving me. Thank you all very much!
Long story short, seems I'm missing two important parts, namely the
double relay and the FI tank (featuring two outlets/inlets). I guess,
despite all the warnings, I'll be able to get someone fabbing a second
inlet to the tank. The guy's apparently able to do this, so I'm not
too concerned that he's blowing himself to pieces. Concerning the
double relay - this is quite hard to score in Germany, but hopefully,
I'll have another option. But more on this later.

Non type2-content starts here:...
I'll be staying in the US, more specific, in Anchorage, Alaska, from
3rd to 16th of May. I'll be attending a conference and me and a friend
are planning to be travelling from Anchorage to Denali national park
and the Denali highway back to Anchorage. We've been in Alaska two
years ago and went from Anchorage to Denali (doing some hiking in
incredible places) and back to Anchorage with a rental car. This was a
very, very nice trip and we did a lot of hiking in this gorgeous
place. Right now, we're planning the route we're going to take and are
looking for a rental car with gravel road permission. If someone on
the list can point me to places I'd definitely should visit, or is
willing to share some information about travel in Alaska please
contact contact me off-list: timo.schairer(-at-)googlemail.com
...Non type2-content ends here
I took a photot of a type2 right between Healy and the park entrance:
http://www.gris.uni-tuebingen.de/people/staff/tschairer/photos/content/IMG_1928_large.html
Furthermore, if someone wants to sell me a working double-relay (I'm
still unsure about what it's worth), preferably in Anchorage during
3rd to 6th of May, please email me about the price.
Thanks again for all the input,
Cheers,
Timo
78 bus
84 beetle
