Date: Sun, 08 Dec 2002 15:19:42 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Portable propane heater report

>Hello Everybody  Do they make a small heater that is both propane and
>electric??  later and have fun  Mark Dearing  Salem Import Service salem Va
>PS  Kerosene heaters can be real dangous in a garage. I had one start a fire
>in a small garage and liked to burn the shop and split westy to the ground
>due to a gas line leak on the westy. Open flames in shops can be scarry,
>becareful.

YES he is right - be sure that if you are dealing with any open flame 
heater that you don't have any volatile chemical (gasoline and the like) 
open as the vapors will pool near the floor - most likely where you have 
the open flame heater sitting.

Wooosh!!! And it is all over. After witnessing several gasoline fires 
during my bachelor Navy years - let me tell you - it will happen faster 
than you think - not like the movies where you and your friends have a 
moment to stare into each other's eyes in terror before you run.

Boom! It just happens.

The little propane heater I mentioned has means for attaching it to a wall 
- presumably 5 feet off the floor.

It won't heat a cold garage understand. It's total output is less than 10K 
BTU. However you can do what I do with it now and put it on the work bench 
near you.

I have a big kerosene heater I use when I want to heat the whole garage but 
it stinks a bit and I would not want it in my Westy or in my house.

I do not know of any electric and gas heaters combos. I have two space 
heaters I will brag about. The first is a tiny Duracraft space heater about 
10 x 10 inches. It has a built in blower, 1500w and good for small spaces. 
It is a ceramic heater, several years old (8 years?) from K-mart or 
Wal-Mart or some place. Less than $30. In the house in my son's room we 
have a large oil filled heater with thermostat (Italian made) that we use 
on it's lowest power and thermostat setting because that room is on a 
corner of the house and cools off quite a bit after midnight. We have to 
keep his door closed because the cats will try to sleep with him and he 
doesn't like that (wakes him up) - he's a typical 2 year old I guess.

We used these oil filled heaters alot in Italy when I lived there and they 
take alot of abuse.




Chris Mills in TN
