Date: Sun, 8 Dec 2002 16:45:51 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "Terry K." <CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Portable propane heater report

On Sun, 8 Dec 2002, Terry K. wrote:

> Chris,
> I've had one of these units for two years, and it is a excellent heating
> source--and very portable--good for a Bus or Van--and it can be hooked
> up directly to a campmobiles propane tank, for a even longer heating
> duration.
> However--it sure doesn't heat my garage too good--and an uninsulated
> shed I think may be a little tough too--maybe a small bedroom with the
> door closed--it would be OK---
>
> 9000 BTU's aint really that much--

Well, that would depend upon how fast those BTUs were delivered.  Over an
hour it isn't too much.  If it were 9000BTU per second it's singe your
socks!

Simple physics lesson for those buying heaters:

A BTU is a British Thermal Unit, the amount of energy required to heat a
pound of water by one degree Farenheit.

In order to be meaningful, you have to know how much time is used to
deliver the energy.  I think that the "BTU" ratings of heaters is actually
in units of "BTU per hour"  The Coleman heater specifications I read
yesterday didn't mention the "per hour" part, probably as a way of
weaseling out of trouble if their heater doesn't actually produce the
stated number of BTUs per hour.  Any heater will produce any number of
BTUs if you run it long enough!

Assuming that the number is in BTU/hr, you can convert to a more easily
understandable power figure (watts) by multiplying by 0.3

The Coleman Black Cat catalytic heater supposedly puts out 3000BTU, which
sounds impressive until you do the math.  3000 times 0.3 equal 900W, or
about what an electric hair dryer would produce.

Now, 900W might be just what you need in a small space like a bus
interior, but don't expect it to work miracles.

BTW, the Coleman Black Cat heater recommended earlier this week apparently
comes in several models.  There is a backpacker model tha puts out 1000BTU
(300W)  and three different 3000BTU (900W) models.  These models include a
bare-bones match-lit model (wal-mart, $45), another model with an
electronic ignition (still looking for that one), and a fancier model
with a plastic housing and a battery driven fan (wal-mart $65).  I don't
see much need for a fan in a small space as normal convection will stir
things up fine.

George Lyle
