Date: Mon, 9 Dec 2002 12:47:26 -0500
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Adding a pop-top

Hi Mike,

As Jason Laster and John Perry have already mentioned, I do have a page 
online regarding how to add a pop-top to a hard-top bus.

http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia .

That's the second inquiry this list has seen this week on pop-top 
swaps. I replied to the first off-list, but I'll answer Mike in public 
in case anyone else might be lurking.

The process of building my westfakia took several months during the 
winter of 2000/2001. Something on the order of 100 man/hours of work 
was required.  The job could be done in considerably less time if the 
persons involved were experienced in bodywork or welding, probably down 
to about half. You could also cut a lot of time out of the job using 
sheet-metal screws and RTV silicon, it would depend on how neat you 
want things to look when you're done. The fibreglass is going to cover 
the seams when the roof is down, so it's your call. You will need two 
people to do the heavy work, but about half of it can be done 
single-handed. You need a weather-protected shop with a 9-ft ceiling, 
or a nice dry spell and the ability to work outdoors.

I used a 74-79 style roof for my project, which is probably the most 
difficult. That's because the double-bed this roof offers requires 
substantial changes to the roof to support the wide plywood bunk. One 
arched cross-member supporting the steel roof has to be cut out and 
replaced with the straight support used on the later westy's.

The 68-73 roof uses a hole similar to that which is in a sunroof bus, 
which doesn't require any structural changes. You could install this 
roof without welding, using a sawz-all or angle-grinder to cut the hole 
and dressing the edges with rubber beading when you're done. The 
problem with this roof is that it doesn't offer the double-bed and it 
puts the luggage rack over the engine, where most bused already have 
enough sag. A high-top install would probably be equally 
straight-forward.

Start the job by removing EVERYTHING inside the bus. Welders and 
angle-grinders throw a lot of sparks, and will easily set flammable 
items alight if left unattended. Seats, door panels, cabinetry & 
flooring all have to go. This is a great opportunity to get in touch 
with the real condition of your bus before you put a major investment 
of time and materials into it. You will also need to protect your 
windows from the sparks & splashes of these, as I have noticed my 
drivers window has a large number of small pock-marks left by the 
sparks thrown by the angle-grinder.

I love my 6-passenger Westfakia. It sleeps 5 and is (re)built from 
original german VW parts in a configuration that somehow didn't occur 
to the folks in Westfalia.

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn



On Sunday, December 8, 2002, at 08:35 PM, Mike Sims wrote:

> Hey all,
>
> I remember someone out there has a great web-page detailing how to add 
> a pop-top to a hard-top bus.  Could anyone provide the web address?
