To: type2(-at-)type2.com,buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org
Date: Mon, 9 Dec 2002 20:38:59 -0600
From: myangelmorgan(-at-)juno.com
Subject: mysterious rattle

ok everyone. i have developed a strange noise lately that is bothering me
because i cant figure out what it is. 

1970 westy:
it sounds like something rattling against the body, but i cant place if
it is underneath, within the framing you know, around the gas tank or
under the seat inside the cabinet. it sounds like it is on the driver
side and it rattles over bumpy roads. when the right rear tire hits a
bump, it doesnt make the rattle, so that backs up my left side theory.

i realized yesterday that it sounds like the noise i was hearing from the
right front wheel well/under passenger seat. i didnt realize the noise
had gone away until it dawned on me that the sound from the back sounded
like this one, but now it is gone. then i thought "maybe it stopped
making that noise when i replaced the wheel bearings on that wheel". ok,
but it cant be the left rear bearings causing this noise because i just
replaced those...

it doesnt sound like just a small tube underneath, rattling against the
body... it sounds bigger and more solid than that. i thought it might be
the westy table, but it isnt that "inside the bus" sort of noise, and
when i shook it, it wasnt as loud as the rattle i hear when i drive.
could the body panel bust free of the frame somwhere? i do not suffer
from extensive rust, so that wouldnt be my first thought. how is the gas
tank held in? are there flaps inside the engine vents? someone once
mentioned foam in there, are there flaps that might be rattling in there
as well? this noise developed after we had snow and ice, that side of the
bus getting hit the hardest. i tried moving anything on the outside of
the bus and under the wheel area, no go. i didnt actually lay on the
ground cuz it was still snowy. i just cant figure it out, but it is
bothering me...  i am afraid it is fatal, but then again, i am always
paranoid about that.

thanks everyone, i wish i could figure it out,
chris
70 westy
