From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Jul 2009 10:40:51 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] bad paint...

Hi Rob,

The color of the paint is not even close. My wife said it looked like an
Econoline van. I think it looks sort of grayish/greenish. Instead of a warm,
creamy white-ie Pearl White. He said he used DCC Concept, Single stage acrylic
urethane. At least that is what I told him to use.

The other issues-there is some orange peel. This is pretty minor, and I
probably could have lived with it. I think he painted when it was too humid
out. Although Ibm not sure what causes orange peel, but it has been super
humid with all the rain, so maybe that caused the problem.

The final issue was that there was tons of dust in the paint, he did not clean
the paint area properly, the roof is terrible. If you run your hand over the
body, you can feel all sorts of stuff in the paint. Some spots on the roof are
so rough, they look like sand paper.

He also says that the single stage does not allow you to buff out any problems
that come up in the painting-ie dust. Although there seemed to be some
discrepancy between now and maybe a month from now. Ie if you let the paint
sit for a month you may be able to buff the dust/bumps out. This makes me
think that maybe I should be using 2-stage paint? Although list wisdom was for
single stage.

I only told him Pearl White, L87. I assumed, incorrectly, that if they needed
more info on the paint color they would ask for it. Is this my fault for not
giving him more paint code info?

Ibm meeting him tonight, and will discuss options. I am pretty sure he is
not going to paint this again, I just want to figure out who can paint
itb&and paint it right color, and decent finish. I have paid for the body
work-which I think he did a decent job with, I paid for about 66% of the paint
job, but I expect to at a minimum get either reimbursed for paint costs-and
bring it somewhere else, or get enough paint to bring it somewhere and have it
painted.

They painted the whole interior the outside color, originally the rear of the
interior was grey. When I re-paint I will probably ask the next people to
paint this stuff grey, although most of it is covered, you do see it in
certain spots.

I want a high quality paint job, I have no plans to ever sell the bus, I had
it completely stripped of everything, and donbt want to do that again. The
original paint lasted over 40 years, in all sorts of harsh environments. Now I
have a garage, and a 2nd car. So it should be pretty well protected, and not
driven as much, paint should be better now compared to the 60bs. So I
donbt think my expectations are unrealistic.

I guess it is good to know that this happens a lot, I just hope it also gets
fixed a lot too.

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA

From: iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net [mailto:iamdonquixote(-at-)comcast.net]
Subject: Re: [VB] bad paint...

Kevin,
  Whats wrong with the paint specifically?  What brand paint? What kind (
acryllic etc ) Did they match with color code or what?  For the PPG paints you
have to tell them not just the factor code but the PPG code ( look it up on
thesamba.com under technical ).  Dupont can cross match from the PPG code.
You can most likely scuff it and repaint.

This happens alot more than you think, I have heard about people redoing
things for improperly matched paint, etc.

On my bus, I painted the doors first ( they were taken off ).  This allowed me
to check things out.  I used Dupont for the pearly white top, slightly more
yellowish than I imagined but it looks good, I repainted a few areas inside
and it matched the original paint well

rob
