From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'John Anderson'" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 7 Jul 2009 12:16:35 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] bad paint...

Thanks for the tips
As for color match-I originally based on it experience/memory. I was
doubting myself a bit, and thought that maybe it was just the fluorescent
lights in his shop. Unfortunately the only thing not painted was the hinges
of the pop out windows, one edge. I didnt find this until my 2nd time back
at the shop. I moved the hinge, and found some original paint. Now this
painted area has basically never seen sunlight, as it was buried under a
hehr crankout window. So it should be pretty damn near the original paint
color. It is clear that what they sprayed is VERY different. I understand
mistakes happen, and Im not angry at him-he just ordered what I told him to
order. If I find out the shop mixed it correctly or they dont have a better
option, I will try to get a color chip-as you suggest, or see if they can
scan part of the engine compartment?

I am trying not to overrestore, but this paint job looks like something I
could have done with a wagner paint sprayer or some rattle cans out in my
yard under a tree. I am willing to have a little orange peel-I dont expect
perfection, maybe Ill take some pics tonight to showcase the difference.

Thanks for your help, I looked in the library for info on color sanding, and
dont see anything. Can you post a link?

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA

From: John Anderson [mailto:wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com]
Subject: Re: [VB] bad paint...

Oh, as someone else mentioned BTW, Concept can easily be color sanded and
buffed if he put it on thick enough that you don't sand or buff through, 
that doesn't fix your color issue though.  But it he did use Concept, it
simplifies the fact that a good PPG supplier can shoot a perfect match with
the computer and then you have a good shop lay on another 2-3 coats and no
harm no foul, still ends up great lasting, just consider the current a bit
of nearly color matched primer (Oh on white BTW, primer shade can influence
topcoat color a fair amount at times.)  Will need an over all scuffing for
adherence.
 
One last thing, again the standard overrestored arguement.  Although 60's
VWs are better than 70's they still had some minor orange peel, shouldn't be
anything major, and obviously no runs, no dust, no bugs, etc.  If you want
it full smooth (and it is reasonable a personal choice) you may be over
restoring.  See my color sanding tips in the Library on type 2.
 
Joh
'65 kombi
