Date: Wed, 08 Jul 2009 10:20:43 -0500
From: "Nate M." <nate(-at-)aircooledtech.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: bad paint. . .

I know I'm jumping on this a day or so late, but a few things need to
be taken into consideration when painting.  I'm not trying to make
excuses for poor work; I haven't seen it in person.  With that said
however, ALL restorers/painters hear this same thing all the time,
"How come my paint doesn't exactly match the original paint color?"

Here's the main problems:

1.  it takes about 7 different hews of color mixed in a "code" to get
virtually any color you desire.
2.  The paint hews that were originally used 40+ years ago have been
outlawed by the EPA over 20 years now, so the environmentally
"friendly" replacements are close, but not exact (and never will be).
These hews also vary slightly between poly, lac, acr. etc.
3.  Paint hews are all slightly different from batch to batch, so even
if you get a really good match with say PPG and in a few months you
want to do some touch-up, you likely will not end up with the same
exact match even though you went to the same store and had the same
guy/machine mix it.
4.  Checking color chips off a computer is the most inaccurate thing
ever since the color settings differ from monitor to monitor.
Printing them out is even worse since most inkjets only use 3-4 hews
to make a given color and then they are just dots. . .
5.  Paint ALWAYS looks different in the can rather than sprayed on the
car.  It also looks different when brushed or sprayed.  A smart thing
to do is to have a small amount mixed and have the painter spray it on
a flat piece of metal for you to see prior to giving them the green
light to spray the whole car.
6.  All paint can be color sanded whether it's single stage (which
most shops don't want to shoot) or two stage (base clear).
7.  All paint jobs get little bits of dust in them and crap that
shouldn't be there.  Even if the paint both gets new filters and is
wetted down before painting; Dust is just a fact of life on earth.
It's how the painter finishes the job later that counts.
8.  Orange peel is part of virtually every paint job on earth.
Whether the painter cuts and buffs it off is the difference between a
good paint job and a show winning job.
9.  Fluorescent lights are BRUTAL on paint jobs.  You can see every
flaw with them that's why paint shops have them so they can get the
best prep and finish.  So understand that in natural light, your car
will look a lot better and that's where it will be seen most ;-)

What most good painters do to limit orange peel is to add a final
"flow-coat" of paint as the final layer.  This is done while the
previous coat is still setting up.  This makes orange peel very slight
and makes cutting (color sanding) and buffing/polishing a lot easier.
Cutting & buffing also removes the inclusions like dust and crud that
will inevitably get into paint when shooting.

Cutting and buffing is almost as expensive as the paint job itself and
is a PITA that most painters don't want to do.  You really have to ask
for it and you'll pay extra for it unless you do it yourself.

Again, I'm not making excuses for a bad job that I haven't seen.
However there are a lot a variables that go into painting some of
which YOU control, some of which the PAINTER controls and some of
which NO ONE controls.  Just some things to consider anyway

--
Regards,

Nate Morse
Owner, ProVolks
Anacortes, WA
(360) 299-8860
Nate's AircooledTech
http://www.aircooledtech.com
