From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 8 Jul 2009 18:53:24 -0400
Subject: re:bad paint....

Hey nate et al.

 

Thanks for the info.there is a lot I don't know about painting autos.I
basically don't know anything except from the bits of list wisdom I have
picked up recently or read about on the list over the years. 

 

I did not expect there to be such a range in colors. I had heard of colors
being mixed incorrectly, but I didn't realize how often. I deal with paint
on houses a lot, and they can pretty much get the color dead on every time.
It is pretty rare that the color of the paint is off between gallons of the
same custom mix. If there is a difference in paint color-it is so minimal
you might imagine it is just from the lighting or shadows. The color
difference I was seeing is way more than expected, but maybe it is just from
inexperience.

 

I understand that color chips off a computer monitor vary a lot, I do know a
little but about color calibration, calibrating printers and monitors etc.
But given that-one should be able to see relative color shifts on monitors.
Again-I know this is largely inaccurate, but precise enough to give an idea
of what I am seeing. I just wanted to post pics so people might have a
slight idea of what I was going through.

 

Dust is a fact of life-this is good to know ;) I guess my question is "how
much should you expect? Or is that all relative, or does it not matter as
long as you are able to buff it out? You can buff out the dust right? It
sounds like that is what I am hearing from the list. Either buff out or
color sand it out.

 

I will try to google search results on color sanding-but John mentioned
having something in the library-which I could not find.

 

When you say you can cut and buff orange peel, I assume you are referring to
basically buffing the paint job? This should get rid of the orange peel? 

 

After some preliminary reading about color sanding buffing-it looks like I
should be color sanding with some foam sanding blocks and 1500-2000 grit
sandpaper and water. Then buffing with a power buffer and rubbing compound.
As for when to do this-is it better to wait for the paint to set longer, or
do it earlier before the paint has fully set? I'll try to get info from the
paint manufacturer, but any tips from you guys helps.

 

I have posted a picture of the paint can label from the pain he used on my
bus. Again check the samba for kguarnotta. I have also posted another pic of
the paint colors labeled.

 

I'll post more as I decide which way to go with this.

 

Thanks again for all advice.I am weighing all my options right now..

 

-Kevin

 

'65 kombi

'69 single cab

Jamaica Plain, MA 
