Date: Wed, 8 Jul 2009 16:55:16 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] re:bad paint....

Kevin my little blather was under library, body, then title was Sandblasting,
Body Prep, Wet Sanding and Safety.  Doesn't say anymore than you have already
read likely, I just mentioned it for a quick read.  You lay down a contrasting
color guide coat, start with 600-1000 grit in really orange peely areas, then
down to 1500-2000 then buff.  But you don't have to get it perfectly smooth,
most people want shiny, not neccesarily smooth, shiny you get with
compounding/buffing.  I would not do this yourself on a Bus you have blown the
money for a Concept paint job, not that you can't, BUT I wouldn't for the
first time, EXCEPT you have a wonderful opportunity to learn here since you
are repainting anyway so you could do the color sanding to learn.  You do NOT
want to compound the existing job if you are going to overpaint it, no real
benefit, potential of not getting all the compound off, but you can/should
color sand it, likely just with some 600 grit
 wet to remove all your orange peel (use a guide coat) treating it just as an
expensive primer coat like I mentioned.
 
For color match like I've said, I don't know.  If you want what YOU consider
to be pearl white, for YOUR bus, you need a sample of YOUR or another bus they
can shoot a match on.  Another persons original bit to borrow (gas tank door)
that you think is what you want to shoot a match on would be a good choice as
well, comes off easy, ships in a flat rate box cheap.  With a good PPG shop
with a computer, I have never had a perceptible error in color from a sample I
provided, even with notoriously hard colors like silver/beige metallics.  I
didn't look at your link, but if you didn't see it:
 
http://www.tcpglobal.com/aclchip.aspx?image=1966-volkswagen-pg01.jpg
 
Has what I consider Pearl White.  I have always considered that color, very
cold, greenish gray myself.  You can buy that chit sheet off ebay if you look
for it, as that color ran over a lot of years.  That chit is large enough to
shoot a match.  And those match codes should still correspond through the
years.  Personally I don't think their should be much range, a good shop
should be able to mix from the codes/mix data, the same reproducible color
every time.  Hell they should still be able to mix Duracryl (laquer) from
original codes from the 60's or 70's.  My PPG shop in WV, I wouldn't have even
needed the computer mix for, when I was shooting cars in high school, it
didn't exist yet.  It does modify the base mix a little but not much.
 
How much dust would I expect.  Absolutely none (like one or two specs at most)
if shot by a pro in a good booth (on a $5000 job they'd be shooting it again
for 1 or 2 specs.)  Me in my garage with a plastic sheeting tent (what I
usually do) maybe a few bits here and there, they will all buff out so who
cares.  Hell usually me on a calm day in the driveway wetting the drive down
first I wouldn't expect more than 5-10 bad specs, and invariable one stupid
no-see-um sized bug that decides to commit suicide (that I usually pick out
wet with tweezers.)  It's all relative, nothing is perfect but you should get
what you pay for.  For my bus if I were paying, pro booth, you supply the
stuff, should take em no more than an hour or two to shoot.  Should be damn
near perfect.
 
The DCC data sheet on:
 
https://buyat.ppg.com/refinishProductCatalog/ViewProductListing.aspx?BrandID=
5d7b4ed7-f83a-4469-b68c-04551702a5df
 
gives all specs regarding drying times, time to color sanding, buffing, etc.
 
John

--- On Wed, 7/8/09, Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:



When you say you can cut and buff orange peel, I assume you are referring to
basically buffing the paint job? This should get rid of the orange peel?
