Date: Wed, 8 Jul 2009 18:11:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] shop-line vs DCC paints

It looks like Shopline is what was called PPG Omni-AU, perhaps just a
different name in a different market, as I thought Omni still existed, I see
on the internet stated it is Omni sold by "PPG Platinum" dealers, and that it
and Omni were actually an entirely different line of paint that PPG bought
from Lilly who bought it from....  It is an interesting thing, although for
instance I have used both the cheapo PPG Omni AE and real Delstar enamel, with
OK results only with the cheaper stuff, I had always thought they are probably
mostly the same base paint, but prethinned in the Omni.  However the Omni
mixes with far fewer tints than the Delstar as well (so mix shops carrying it
had fewer tints to stock and go bad, smaller space, sold to large body shops
to mix their own, shops in small towns, stuff like that) so to mix the same
paint in the Omni might be 3-4 tints, in the Delstar 7-8 for the same paint
code.  Similarly some paint colors can't be mixed
 in the Omni.  So clearly even in the same manufacturer, there is going to be
a difference if you use 8 tints with one mix, and only 3 with another,
somebody is getting the short end of the stick, but who knows which one is
really shorted depends on how good the guy or computer who developed the color
formula was.  So may be a reason, may not be.
 
The whole thing does raise a bit of an issue about what to do now, because you
want to be very, VERY, certain you have something compatible down for the next
coat if you change brands or lines, even within the same manufacturer.  I
might personally, color sand the whole thing, shoot it with a PPG sealer, then
the Concept, even though you would be losing the built in color compatible
primer ability of the current coat, you might save yourself headaches in the
long run.  Unfortunately I would also probably give the bus a good solid
several weeks before I would recoat, you might not have to, but I would.  Just
me anyway.  Back in the day (the late 80s) mixing between brands and types of
paint was alot less forgiving, and an error today could have either total
catastrophic instant failure, or the same 4-5 years later (even from the
factory, look at all those 80's Chevy and Dodge proucts that had paint fall
off the primer in sheets when they were 5-6
 years old.)  I got to have a very insane respect for not mixing lines and for
always shooting a coat of PPG DAS1980 sealer (I think now long superceded by
something probably NCS1990) between a factory paint and repaint cause you
never knew what was really on the car when you started and who had been there
before.  At this point, if I were you, I'd actually probably either try to get
an acceptable match in the Shopline he already put on, and shoot that after
color sanding, or wait a month, color sand, shoot whatever the PPG dealer
tells you as primer/sealer, and then the Concept.  The only way I wouldn't is
if you personally speak to someone who knows what they are talking about (a
good dealer who sells both lines, or someone on an 800 number at PPG)  who
tells you it is OK to shoot the Concept directly onto the Shopline.  And I'd
buy my paint from the same guy, and get him to back it up in writing that he
is telling you it is OK.  You won't get
 labor out of him, but if it fails 3 years from now at least you might get
$400-500 in paint cost back.  I also see mentioned worryingly on a couple of
sites that Shopline is NOT WARRANTEED???
 
Of course could be that he ran out of DCC labels and it really is DCC in a
Shopline can...  Seems unlikely though, my guy just wouldn't have labeled it.

--- On Wed, 7/8/09, Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net> wrote:



I think I see what may be part of the problem. I noticed his paint can says
Shop-line on it, instead of DCC Concept paint. I think he got the wrong type
of paint. I will speak with the store he got the paint from Thursday, or
call PPG.
