From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'John Anderson'" <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 9 Jul 2009 20:08:47 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] shop-line vs DCC paints

I spoke with the shop where my guy got his paint. He told me he doesnt
carry DCC Concept paint any more, he carries PPG Delfleet now. I could not
really understand why or if this is a better paint thatn DCC Concept. He
just said that no one was really ordering DCC Concept, so they stopped
carrying it. He is going to talk to PPG about compatibility. Hopefully
tomorrow I will have time to talk to PPG directly as well.

I understand the idea of just putting more of the paint that he put on
there-so Id have a good 4 coats of paint. I am tempted to go that way. But
if I can get a better paint over the paint that is on there, then Ive got 4
coats of protection too. The original paint looked great as recently as a
few years ago, the only spots it look bad were due to rust/dents. The
original paint polished up beautifully. I would like this paint to last that
long.

I just got a lead on a guy that specializes in restoring old cars, who likes
german cars, and VWs. Im going to try to call him tomorrow too. This is a
lot of headaches, I am hoping to figure out an answer soonThanks for your
help and support.

-Kevin

'65 kombi
'69 single cab
Jamaica Plain, MA

From: John Anderson [mailto:wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com]
Subject: RE: [VB] shop-line vs DCC paints

Kevin, I would think carefully about just figuring out if they can do a
better color match in the Shopline.  In all reality, even it is probably so
much better than the original finish VW put on there 40 years ago, that it
may not be worth the potential future headache.   Hell it is probably better
than most current acryllic laquer and enamel.  If you can get a sample, and
they can shoot a computer match in Shopline (or if someone in the area can
if that specific dealer can't) I'd probably just have a good pro respray in
a booth, after a good color sanding and cleaning and be done with it.  You
get the benefit of gauranteed compatibility, plus the added benefit of
having 4+ coats of a nearly correct color on the van.  Any current urethane
is going to be good for 10 years or more of daily driving in the middle of
even AZ or AK, so for a non daily driven vehicle, I wouldn't worry.  I'd be
annoyed, but I wouldn't worry.
