From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 23 Jul 2009 12:02:31 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] newer air cleaner on an older bus?

That is the air cleaner. As I recollect, it can be mounted on either the 
left (mine was) or the right. I believe you can run the standard oil bath 
cleaner with at least a 1776cc. The adapter to the top of the carb will vary 
with whatever solex is installed.

The bracket is a tab about 2" tall x about 2.5" wide that hangs down off the 
roof of the engine compartment located about 12-15" either to the left or 
right of center and about in line with the carb.

You should be able to pick up an oil bath cleaner from a swap or Samba. Be 
sure it has the jute insert inside.

Chris
64 DD camper


Elliott wrote:
I've got a 63 panel with a replaced engine and I wrote the list a few weeks
ago about identifying the engine.  The bus runs, but it's missing it's air
cleaner, so I haven't really been running it until I find a replacement, so 
I'm
writing here to get some advice.

Firstly I'm interested in an oil bath cleaner rather than an air filter, but 
if
someone can make a good case for the air filter I might go that direction as 
it
seems like I can actually buy new air filter setups as opposed to the lack 
of
reproduction air cleaners.

Does the air cleaner actually attach to the roof of the engine compartment?
I've seen pictures of air cleaners with a bracket attached to it:

  http://www.wolfsburgwest.com/wired/wired_05_01/bus_63.jpg

In the roof of my engine compartment I only see a bar that runs the entire
width above the carb.  Would the air cleaner attach there?

The engine is newer (both in age and in style), so it would require a later
model air cleaner (I'm guessing a 68-70) model.  Would it be a problem 
hanging
a newer air cleaner in my older bus?  A newer one will hang on the right 
side
of the engine compartment, while mine originally hung to the left.  Would it
be possible to mix and match a left hanging duct with a newer air cleaner to
hang it on the left side?

Any other advice about the subject is welcome.
