Date: Thu, 23 Jul 2009 14:37:38 -0700
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Cc: kimbellora(-at-)gmail.com
Subject: A Dark and Stormy Night (Trip Report)

After an extraordinarily dry couple of weeks, multiple forecasts of 
thundershowers which produced not a drop from the sky, and both vegatable
gardens and lawns showing signs of giving up hope, many of us in 
Pittsburgh have been praying for rain.  Or at least hoping for a few
drops to replenish the rain barrel...

Well, this week we've gotten it and yesterday marked the third or fourth
day in a row which bore scattered thunderstorms and the occasional 
torrential downpour which is probably just what we needed.  

Despite this, some friends across town were planning on going ahead with 
their BBQ for a returning friend, and, given that our new dog hasn't been
in a ride in the bus yet, I said to my partner, "What do you say we take
Lily over to BBQ?"  The thought being that it'd be good to see how the pooch
reacts (sensible, given the planned camping excursion this weekend, I thought).

"The only downside is that it might rain..." I considered, half to myself,
ruminating on the fact that while it wasn't raining yet, it looked fairly 
forboding.  You see, despite sealant in all the right places, that sun hatch
still likes to leak in a torrential downpour, and there's another leak in
one of the window seals somewhere.

"Is it going to take an extra 30 minutes for us to get going?"  

"No, she's ready, I just need to pull her out of the garage..."

And off we went!

The pooch (Mojo...a 2 or 3 year old Husky rescue) seemed to enjoy sitting
between the seats and being a part of the ride, while Kim and I talked
about how Lily was doing and discussed whether the '71 would be ready for
our upcoming trip cross-country at the end of the summer.

"Worst case, we'll take Lily.  She should be fine.  Although I do have to 
track down what that weird squeak is....I think it's just one of the
shocks going though....shouldn't be a big deal"

The squeak in question was a rhythmic *SQUEAK* coming from the right
rear wheel, about once a revolution.  On the one hand I didn't think it
was a shock because it seemed consistent with the wheel revolving.  On
the other hand, it sounded like a suspension squeak, not a brake rubbing
or a bearing growl.  Plus, I thought, I just adjusted the rear brakes not
too long ago (~400 miles) and checked the tranny oil level and everything
there checked out: must either be the shocks or something else I can't
think of...  I'll pull the shocks tonight or tomorrow, I assured myself.

Well we got to the BBQ and a fine time was had by all.  Just as we were
leaving, however, the promised rain arrived and the heavens were rent 
assunder.  I ran through the rain and pulled around to pick up Kim and Mojo
so they could stay mostly dry, then we made our way across town towards home.

It was just after we crossed the 10th St Bridge and turned onto the 
East/Southbound portion of PJ McArdle Roadway when the rain started
coming down in sheets and things started to get hairy.  To understand
how hairy, you have to understand PJ McArdle Roadway, which is not just a
windy road going up the side of a large hill in Pittsbugh, but also one
with streetcar tracks set into the middle of the road (one pair of 
tracks in each of the two traffic lanes).  This makes handling difficult
in DRY situations, let alone the "hydroplane ready" conditions we were
now faced with.  

Undaunted and used to driving buses in bad weather, we soldiered up the
hill.  That's when something funny started to happen though...Lily started
to lose speed.  It didn't seem like she was losing power, per se, nor
did it feel like she was hydroplaning, but all of the sudden she was 
having a harder time making it up the hill.  "Curious," I thought to 
myself, murmuring something to Kim about it being weird that we were 
hydroplaning while I downshifted to second and gave her some gas.  

Unfortunately, losing power was one of the least of my worries: I was
tired, ready to be home, trying to navigate McArdle in crappy conditions
and generally trying to focus on all of the little details that can make
bad weather driving stressful...or all consuming.  

We crested the worst of the grade and stopped at the traffic light which 
marked the end of the trolley tracks and the home stretch - 2 or so miles 
of roads I can do in my sleep - and pulled past the new police station and 
up the last part of the hill.  We were a block away from the one-way cutoff 
street that takes us home when I heard a sound and I knew something was
wrong.  It was a grinding sound and a bad one at that, from - you guessed 
it - the right, rear tire.  I pulled to the side of the road as the sound
got worse, threw on the hazzards, and stopped the car.  

We're sitting here on the hill, sorta off the road, visibility isn't great,
the neighborhood is worse, and people come up this bit pretty fast as they
speed toward their destinations....

I run towards the back of the car, see the hubcap has popped off, so I grab
it and look at the hub.  No discernable damage, but I can smell what seems
to be gear oil.  I jump back in the bus and call AAA for a tow.  Kim and
Mojo head down to the police station looking for a flare but they claim 
they have none, while a cop pulls up to me and tells me "You're sticking
out into the road, you've gotta move your car..."  Thanks bud.  I'd love
to.  "The transmission's blown...I'm waiting for AAA..."  "Well, you best
hurry..."

The next 90 minutes were touch and go, involving what seemed to be a break-in,
lots of cops, random people wandering a dodgy neighborhood, a would be
good samaritan taxi driver, and finally a flat bad trailer from AAA to take
me home.

Upon inspection, the axle portion of the rear drum sheared away from the 
rest of the drum.  Yes, I said sheared. Or fractured.  Brazilian metal 
failure.  

I figure the brakes on that tire locked up halfway up McArdle and I dragged
the tire about a mile before it popped.  I'll be disassembling in an hour
or so.  Wish me luck...hopefully the axle stub isn't screwed and/or there
isn't any larger scale damage.  I'll report my findings later.

Cheers,
   Tom
   '67 Freedom Camper, "Lily"
   '71 Hardtop Camper

---
  "You realists can stay the hell out of our office" - David Dudas
