From: Elliott Johnson <elliott(-at-)elliottjohnson.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Fri, 24 Jul 2009 12:14:58 -0700
Subject: Re: [VB] big hole in tin - newer air cleaner on an older bus?

On Friday 24 July 2009 07:56:00 claralw(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> Yes, the 2" hole is for the air cleaner pre-heat on a 68 -71 bus or a 68 & later beetle.
> here's a 68 bus:
> http://www.thesamba.com/vw/archives/manuals/68bus/page29.jpg
> No, you do NOT want to use that air cleaner on your splitty.? 

Is this a question or a comment?  I agree that I'd prefer to not use a later 
air cleaner, but since the bus has replacement motor I think I should fit an 
appropriate air cleaner.  If I track down an engine that would have been in a 
bus produced Sept 1962 I'll think about replacing the replacement ;)

> Split buses (and 67 and earlier beetles) used a 38 mm hole for the 1" pre-heat tube.

My Dad who's housing the bus at the moment measured the pre-heat tube hole in 
the engine tin at 2", so it seems like it has a newer tin that doesn't accept 
the 1" style pre-heat tube.

> pre-heat takes warm air and feeds it into the carb.?? This works against carb? icing.? 
carb icing happens when the fuel is vaporised in the carb, which drops the temp and 
then water condenses on the carb and intake.?? It makes the engien runs funky and 
often stall at lights.??This is an issue below? about 60F, though I've seen icing happen 
with temps in the mid 60s.?? When the temps are generally above 70F, the pre-heat 
counterweight flap should be propped open, as it does make the engine run warmer, 
which you don't want when it's 85F out.?? I call that summer position.?? 
> Here in WA WA pre heat is important about 9-10 months of the year.

Great description, but I have a hard time understanding if you are making 
statements or asking questions.  It seems like statements.

> The tin between crank and pulley changed as well at 68.?With mismatched tin it 
doesn't fit right, or has gaps.

Yeah the engine tin is missing the seal that goes around it and I'm wondering 
if the original seal fell out due a possibly larger gap.  I'll try a normal 
seal and if that doesn't work then I'll improvise one that will.

All the best,
Elliott
