From: "Chad Carmichael" <vwbuspilot(-at-)intergate.com>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 12 Oct 2003 18:14:48 -0500
Subject: Sick bus..ideas?

I have a problem I can't figure out so I am hoping that the great type2
gurus can help. I have a 68 westy with a 1600 single port engine with a 31
pict carb. It all started one day during a bad storm. In mid trip my clutch
started feeling funny. So I got her home as quick as possible. The next day
after the rains were gone I found the problem was a broke clutch return
spring. No problem I replaced it with a old one off a junk tranny I had
sitting in the backyard. Now heres where the problem started I pulled the
engine to get to the area alot easier. I was in a hurry to put the engine
back in and I hooked up the coil backwards. Needless to say I fried the
points and condenser. I replaced them and it fired right up. I did a
complete tune up (set the valves the gap on the plugs and points replaced
the fuel filter and spark plug wires set the timing the whole 9 yards) drove
it to a friends house to feed his dog while they were at Indigibus and when
I went to leave nothing.....Checked everything....Finally figured out it was
the old distributor. So I replaced it with the spare 009 I had as a back up.
I know this isn't the right dizzy so lets not get on that subject. Now I am
having a horrible time getting it timed right. So if anyone knows the best
timing mark that would be great. Also I can't seem to get the clutch set
back right. It works great the first 5 minutes or so of driving then it
feels as if its giving out. Its hard to shift into gears especially 2nd and
4th. Anyone every had these problems? It not leaking oil from where the
tranny and engine meet. I have about a inch of free play before I feel the
clutch start to move. Any ideas would be gratefully appreciated......Thanks
for everyone's time that read this.......

Chad Carmichael
1968 Westfalia "Stella Luna"

"Once and a while you get shown the light in
 the strangest of places if you look at it right."
