To: jantolov(-at-)hotmail.com,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 13 Oct 2003 08:54:09 -0400
From: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: RE: spark

Well,

        For what it's worth, I had similar problems with my 1973 VW
Transporter when I first bought it. My car has the 1.8 with hydraulic
lifters, the mechanical advance Non-points distributor, and a bugpack
(Purolator) electric fuel pump. 

When I first bought the car, after changing the oil, etc... I couldn't
get the car to drive over 30 miles an hour.. at all. I could probably get
to 40, but it felt like it would have taken maybe 1-2 mile stretch just
to build up enough momentum. 

The Bus had it's motor rebuilt before I got it. It had sat for about 3-4
years in covered storage with less than 100 miles on a rebuilt motor and
transmission.  I still have not replaced the plug wires or distributor
cap, which are all now over 4 years old. 

What I DID do however, that made the biggest difference, was change out
the fuel lines. The Bus came with all original fuel lines. They were
spliced in about 5 places, each place attached with an in-line fuel
filter.

I only wanted to have to ever do this once, so I decided to go buy steel
fuel lines. I removed the brass nipple on the fuel tank, and ran a steel
fuel line directly from the fuel tank, along the back-side of the
firewall, and piped it straight into the electric fuel pump. From that
point, I then attached another steel fuel line (about 8", which then
screwd directly into one of those clear fuel filters. It has steel
fittings on both ends. One side is a screw-in side, and the other side
has a steel nipple. From the steel nipple, I attached about 6"s of brand
new rubber fuel line from there directly to the Webber 2-bbl carburetor.

As SOON as I started the Bus up, I knew it was going to drive better. I
can now easily cruise at 50-55 miles an hour without ANY effort. The bus
climbs to that speed without hesitation, etc.


The only thing I can figure was, that because the fuel pump was
originally installed (by the PO) so far from the tank, but closer to the
carburetor, that because of the sucking action of the fuel pump, it was
probably sucking in air right through the fabric / rubber fuel lines. I
mentioned this to a neighbor who apparently used to own Volkswagens as
well and he told me that was exactly what was wrong with it. So.. by the
time the fuel got to the carburetor, it was at half pressure and half of
it was air!

Hopefully that will at least give you something to check. I was
completely new with Volkswagens and at first just assumed that that's how
slow the Bus really is supposed to be. Heheh.. but it's really not THAT
bad.


Todd




You said:

List,
 
   Thanks for all your help with the problem of not being able to go over
30 
mph....  it is getting better but i still have some problems.
 
I have so far
 
   1. gapped the points- new points
   2. checked and found a vacume leak
   3. checked and changed the timing from 12 to 10
   4. replaced spark plugs and wires
   5. new cap and rotor
  
Any suggestions would be greatly appreciated
 
Jason Antolovich
Purdue University
 
74 Sportsmobile
