From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Thu, 02 Mar 2006 06:00:29 +0000
Subject: Re: re: [T2] Speakers in front kick panels:??

Hi.  I just took some pictures and I will post them on THESAMBA.com  Search 
my gallery - honeybus -

The back of the speaker is 2" deep, but it looks like there is a 3" void 
back there, with a styrofoam insulation paned, so no interference from the 
metal front.

They actually measure 6" across  the front of the grill.

No links to pictures, 'cause they aren't up there yet.

Barry sends

For those who read this far::: This morning (Wednesday) I stopped by a junk 
yard in Fredericksburg Virginia on the way home from Disputanta Virginia and 
asked about bay VWs.  I was taken to a yard that was off the beaten path, 
and there was this beautiful Vanagon that had SYNCRO right across the front. 
  It was dark red, with brand new snow tires on all four fancy rims.  I 
didn't check the size of these absolutely BRAND NEW tires, because they we 
were obviously too big for me. Not a camper, but someone will be interested. 
I don't know the price..  If you are going to Everybus via I-95 from 
Springfield/Fairfax/Alexandria thru Fredericksburg VA, it is worth a stop.

The guy also showed me a '73 VW bay station wagon that had a single carb, 
and it also looked clean.

Both were not picked over.   yet...    nothing for me there


Readers Digest. Illiterates die of intestinal blockage.




----Original Message Follows----
From: courtney hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: J Barry Burneskis <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: re: [T2] Speakers in front kick panels:??
Date: Wed, 01 Mar 2006 09:47:38 -0800

Thanks Barry, my speakers actually ARE from Wallymart they are Pyramid brand 
I think. They are fairly deep however, so I will check again and see if it 
works out. Did you not have trouble with the way the panel bends in that 
area though? How did you get the speaker to sit flat on a rounded edge like 
that? Do you have PICTURES???
Thanks again!
Courtney
