Date: Sat, 27 Apr 2013 14:06:22 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: batteries and frig

HI Kevin,
            Running the standard frig on a battery is marginal at best.  You
will end up hammering that battery, regardless of manufacturer or type, in no
time flat. In my readings, and research of battery chemistry you only get a
few full flat discharges on a lead acid cell before it never comes back
fully-few = 2 or 3, not 10 times.  You will flatten that battery running a
frig unless you have a low voltage disconnect-built into every good modern
solar charge controller.  IMHO the original frig was never really meant to be
used for camping while running from a 12v battery.  More like an overnight
cooler between day drives.  In europe, where the vehicle was designed, nights
are relatively cool, even in summer, so the frig doesn't have to do as much
work.  We colonials like to camp for more than one overnight without running
the engine.

On the other hand, the three way Dometic  works fine for me, on propane, even
in the Nevada desert summer. I'm a playa regular and there is no shade or
clouds.  My frige makes ice, for a mojito, in the cute little trays every day
for at least ten days on the tiny OEM tank.  I have installed a fan on the
interior fins to circulate the interior air, and two extra fans in the back to
extract the hot air and make the condenser more efficient.  They are computer
case(back), or CPU(fins), fans, dialed down in rpm to minimize their power
draw and noise.  All of these mods are out on the web-not original to me. 
Before I go camping I always run it on 110v (overnight if possible).  A 15
watt panel keeps my battery up, no trouble.

If you are going to flog(old drag race term for 'use') the original 12volt
frig you will have to make it efficient-add insulation, and add some way to
keep your house battery up.  For a start, you MUST do a "big 3" on your engine
charging wiring.  Google it.  Very easy to do on our vans as 3/4 of one of the
cables is already done.  Second, use the Blue Seas or Hellroaring technology
to charge your house batt with big wiring-way more energy transfer.  Search
for my posts on the subject.  The charging relay that the vendors sell is
"outdated", to be nice.  If you camp mainly on sunny days, get the biggest
solar panel that you can fit in your rig and set it outside at the correct
angle for your location.  You will need a charge controller, Morningstar makes
good ones-more big wires.  Solar has never been cheaper and will do a good job
if you get sun.   Tons of vendors, mono-crystaline are preferred IMHO.

A Honda EU1000i is another, playa-tested, alternative. In our remote field
camps we run them every day, for months, sometimes 18 hours a day.  Far more
than you will ever use them in your life.  That series is the gold standard
for portable gensets; quiet and durable.

Finally, as JohnA says, the Truckfrige guy does good battery tech (energy
density is king for us small fry) and his friges are a big step forward.  An
excellent upgrade path.

If you want a 110v-12v converter to run your frig, buy a Newmar. 

Charger-converters are a whole 'nother thing, and more than I'm up for at the
moment.  You will spend at least half as much for a good charger controller,
i.e. that won't kill your batteries, or blow up under load, as you would to
buy a Truckfrige which would move your whole project forward.

More than you wanted to know.

jon

"Your present circumstances don't determine where you can go; they merely
determine where you start." Nido Qubein
