From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'Type 2 List'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 1 May 2013 21:16:08 -0400
Subject: trip report - Big Sur

I just got back from my trip to Big Sur in my new (to me) bus. It was a
great trip.

 

My wife and 18 month old son flew out to CA on Monday, and picked up the
bus. My wife had work out there for the week, so I spent a few days trying
to do some prep for the bus. This was a bit tricky, as I had not lived out
here for a few years, so I could not remember where everything was-so there
was a lot of driving around. I also had my son to watch. 

 

I had to pick up all sorts of random stuff from sleeping bags to blankets
and cutlery. I also wanted to do an oil change, and sort of check over what
I could on the bus-make sure I had any tools I might need.

 

By Thursday night we were as set as I could get the bus.I was able to find a
parking spot near an outlet so I could plug the bus in overnight-and get the
fridge nice and cold. 

 

Friday morning we got up, hit the grocery store on the way out of town. We
headed down towards Fernwood Campground, with a stop at Point Lobos on the
way.  At point Lobos we got out and walked around, saw some seals, and
otters-as well as a pretty cool cypress grove. Our hiking was limited with
the little one, but also pretty fun chasing him around the trails.
Unfortunately we were pretty far from the animals-so I don't think he really
saw them. But he liked running around on the trails, and looking at the
birds. 

 

Back in the bus-and great weather meant great views on the Pacific Coast
Highway. It was beautiful. I ended up doing all the driving, my wife is
still a bit scared driving with our son in the car.and that can be a pretty
scary road to drive on. Plus I think she wanted to get the most out of the
views! We stopped a few times to take in the views, there are quite a few
spots on the side of the road to look at the coast. 

 

The campground was relatively easy to find, down a pretty steep driveway.
They have a very decent general store, which had coffee, which is a priority
for my wife. I've got to figure out how to make decent coffee on our own-as
most campgrounds don't have this. The place also had a restaurant/bar. We
ate there the first night, but cooked the rest of the meals. There is a nice
river going through the campground, pretty shallow. I had fun watching my
son throw rocks in the river. He thought it was the greatest thing. The
facilities there are clean, and they have a great washing up station for
doing dishes. We were able to plug the bus in at our spot. I settled on a
50' 14 gauge extension cord. Bright Green, as I didn't want to trip  on it.
There was another Westy there - an '87. We talked VW a bit. He has had his
for about 10 years, and I learned a bit about the newer models, and got some
tips on using the Westy.

 

The next day we did some more driving on Rt 1, checking out the views, and
went to Pfeiffer Beach. We missed the turn on this, as there is no sign on
the road for it. It is a beautiful beach, but crazy windy. I'm guessing it
is always windy there-otherwise I could have stayed there all day.

 

Then we left the next day, back to San Fran, as we had a flight back early
the next morning. 

 

Overall-great mini-trip. My wife is trying to convince me to leave the bus
out there a bit longer, so we can do another mini-trip like this out there,
before we do the big trip back to Boston. She goes out often enough for
work, that the cost to get there is not too bad, and there are so many great
site to see out there.we'll see. Next time, I'd probably bring my campstove
with me-as cooking inside the bus, is not great. The sink with water is
nice, but we didn't really need it as the campground had a good cleaning
spot. If the weather were different (ie raining) then I would have loved the
indoor cooking. 

 

Peace and happy travels.

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'78 Westy

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
