Date: Wed, 8 May 2013 08:19:58 -0500
From: Gerald Livingston <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Sudden loss of power

OK, while I'm making coffee and getting my work day started and
waiting for the engine to cool so I can check the valves and do a
compression test y'all start throwing out causes for sudden loss of
power that doesn't leave one stranded with catastrophic failure.

The deets:

Unknown engine, unknown miles.
It's a 1500 or 1600 single port that supposedly had 3000 miles on a
rebuild. I've put about 15,000 on it over the last 3 years

Driving home via Wal-Mart last night. About 5 miles total. Last 2 miles
includes a gentle grade with 60mph limit.

Just as I started up the grade my engine sound changed and I started
losing speed. I cannot pinpoint the nature of the audible change. I
have stuff rattling in my sink and jalousies that need a seal
freshening so there are other noises interfering.

No smoke.
No overheating. (oil temp gauge only, no CHT)
No loss of oil pressure.

I can run the rpm up with the clutch in but as soon as I let it out
rotations drop and I putter off to a turtle's pace start. I can top out
at 45mph in 3rd or 4th after about 3/4 of a mile on a dead level.

This is currently my only vehicle. My son wrecked my backup a couple
months ago and it's not back-up yet.

So, I had to crank it back up this morning and drive it in to work,
risking that catastrophic failure. Home to work without the side trip
to the evil empire is about 2 miles of dead level all the lights are
set for us commuters travel. I never spun it up hard and never went
over 35 or so. It cranks and idles fine. Engine sound is still
"different" and it still has no puling power.

So, just throw out ideas. 

How much is it going to cost me if I need to replace two single port
heads? If one has a wonky valve or seat I'd rather replace both at the
same time, complete, rather than replacing a single valve, guide, or
head.

What's the rough cost of whatever other ideas you come up with?

Any other details needed?

Thanks,

G2

-- 
I am on the email list. Unless you are sending information which should
not be shared with everyone else please reply to the list, not directly
to me.
