Date: Mon, 24 Mar 2003 00:24:51 -0500 (EST)
From: Joseph Clark <jclark(-at-)supernet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: welding / gas tank back in (long, as usual)

Continuing saga of rear end work on 65 standard....

Well, I think I got enough penetration on the clutch tube tab to hold it
to the torsion tube.  Also tacked in a replacement bit of heater cable
conduit.  Bozo-level work, but then I see where someone tacked the clutch
tube somewhere else under the bus and it doesn't look any better and is
solid as a rock.  I will definitely have to hone my skills further before
going to work on sheet metal.

As mentioned, I played it double-safe and took the tank out before
welding.  Looked like there had been some seepage around the sender, so I
brushed the ick off the tank (a lot of dust) and pulled the sender.  Also
pulled the outlet pipe to check the filter.

Dumped about half a cup of narsty sludgy bits out of the tank.  Banged it
around and swirled a little gas in it and poured out a little more.
Beyond that I ain't bothering with the chain & tank cleaner stuff now.
Old filter was munged to the outlet hole but I got it off and put a new
one on there, with a new gasket for the nut.  Put gasket compound on the
sender seal and cranked it back down.  Wire-brushed and rustoleumed a
little light surface rust around where the filler neck meets the tank.

Swept out the tank shelf.  Bottom pads looked OK.  Other than a ton of
dusty dirt the shelf looked fine.  JP gave me an idea for replacement
strap felts, and I realized I had some scraps of thick felt left over from
a replacement luggage-well pad from a B*etle that worked just fine.
Putting it back in was easier than I feared; removing the air cleaner
elbow helps.  FWIW, I took the neck seal off and installed it from the
outside after the tank was in place.  It would also be easier w/o the
outlet pipe attached, but not hugely.  Got it in and snugged down and put
a nice new piece of fuel hose on the outlet pipe with a hose clamp.

Still waiting on a couple of parts but I can start putting the bearings
back into the redux boxes, reassemble the lower axle, stuff like that.
Maybe by next weekend I'll be rolling again.

Also need to pull the trailer hitch off the 71 westy to see if it will fit
- I think it will (mounts to two long bolts vertically through the
triangular rear apron mounts, and to the rear face of the bumper).

Also after getting the tranny all back into place I'll be putting the 71's
(nonstock) 1600sp in and replacing the giant twin quietpack hunglow
extractor with a nice stock bus system from Bus Depot (can't comment on
fit yet, but their $100 kit looks like nice quality stuff and unlike every
other exhaust system I've seen, it comes with EVERYTHING you need to
replace it -- copper head nuts, exhaust gaskets, the works). 

Maybe I'll put the extractor on my B*etle. :)

Oy. Bit by bit.

Joe Clark
www.jsclark.net
