Date: Sun, 29 Dec 2002 20:36:48 -0500 (EST)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Timing marks on crank gear

> Timing marks move when you split the case
> without first removing pistons.

Ummm... When we rotated the crank, allowing the gears to mesh, the timing
marks did not line up. They were one tooth off. We had to lift the crank out
of the engine half it rested in to reseat it properly. The photo was after the
reseating (I didn't grab the camera until after my father rotated the crank).

> Maybe you haven't given the books a fair chance to help.

We started down this road trying to get the distributor spring out of the
engine case - hoping not to split it. After splitting the case (and retreiving
the mangled spring) we realized that removing both heads and the pistons on at
least one side was the easiest route to take. It was one of those "Gee, I
really hope we don't have to do a full teardown" jobs that ended up becoming a
full teardown.

To make matters worse, I managed to leave my Bentley in Tennessee. We were
running off one Muir Idiot's Guide, a BusDepot Glove Compartment Reference,
and a German '74 Transporter Shop Manual (better pictures than Bentley but the
text is all German). I bought a Haynes manual when I got to a parts dealer
yesterday. Another factor: we were able to get a full engine gasket kit from
the parts dealer in Ocala and I had to delay my return to Tennessee by a week.

> How many cam bearings fell from their original locations?

Don't know. We reset then according to the pins.

> Any main bearing locarting pins missing too?

All the pins were there. It was a little tricky getting the bearings to stay
put as we tapped the halves back together (took two tries). But it went
smoothly when everything was lined up right.

> Previous photos don't show the dizzy drive thrust washer.

Hmmm... Oh yeah, it's stuck to the end of the dizzy drive.

> Post a photo of all the extra  parts when you finish !

Hah! Maybe an extra engine?

Note on the timing marks: I've had this bus for almost a year and could never
set the timing according to the marks. I always had to rev the engine to
3000rpm and adjust the timing until it ran as smooth as possible. It never
idled well. I have a feeling that once it's all back together, I'll have a
much better running bus. It would be nice to go the extra mile and do a full
rebuild, but I don't have the time or the funds.

-Eric

-- 
www.yogabus.com                  '74 Westy 'Portia'
