Date: Mon, 30 Dec 2002 23:29:23 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Smog specifics for 68-79 busses

On 12/30/02 6:27 PM, "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net> wrote:

> > ACL - Thermostatic Air Cleaner
> 
> I have complained about this to the Calif Air Resources Board repeatedly.
> Fuel injected buses from mid 76 to 79 do NOT have Thermostatic Air
> Cleaners.....never ever!

Makes me wonder if they are getting the wrong answers from VW.  Calling VWOA
about a bus that old usually results in teaching the phone tech what you
already know. :-(

Knowing a little about other model years from the list I added that line
about the discrepancies.

- I thought all 79 models had electronic ignition and an O2 sensor but the
Mitchell book doesn't seem to think so?

- Apparently they only test for the Fill Pipe Restriction and Cat on 1978 CA
models that have carbs?  Why?

It appears that the book is a guide and they check with the labels and go
from their own experience.  I certainly didn't fail because they couldn't
find the ACL, but they still put in on the BAR sticker that it's part of the
test.  

What I find contradictory is that they are totally strict on the emissions
test, but have no qualms getting your VIN number wrong 5 times, or listing
your bus as automatic by mistake which changes the valid RPM and/or timing
range, or listing the incorrect tests for your model year on the BAR
certificate.  Only the emissions test is scientific.

For example, I asked them about SPK, Spark Controls, because the Mitchell
didn't list it for my year but they printed it out on the sticker anyway by
mistake. Their attitude was that it could mean anything and not to worry
about it being listed there despite the fact it was incorrect.

Because of fraud and the computer system control over printing, getting a
corrected sticker is way too much hassle for them but you are left trying to
explain this to the local smog shop 2 years from now when the tech is
looking for your thermostatic air cleaner.

I hate these kind of mistakes and it probably means an unnecessary trip to
the referee in future unless luck and sense prevails.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
