Date: Mon, 30 Dec 2002 23:48:20 -0800
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] headliner vs. windshield dilemma

On 12/30/02 8:11 PM, "Jonathan Farrugia" <jfarrugi(-at-)umich.edu> wrote:

> if you haven't pulled the windshield you don't really know if its rusty
> under the seal or not imho.  pull it and check for piece of mind

This was also my experience but it's sometimes not a good idea to see what's
under there unless you are 100% prepared to fix it properly right there and
then.

A few years back my bus looked great and was rust free or so I thought:

- as it turned out there was some rust festering behind the rear bumper
unless from a 1980 impact by the PO (not kidding) that I didn't discover
until 2002.  The bumpers hide a lot of rust problems.

- the under the windshield area had started to rust but there we no signs of
it.

In 1997 I had the windshield replaced because of a large crack in the
original glass that would have failed a safety inspection.  I was in a hurry
to have it replaced because I was moving and the glass shop phoned me to
tell me that there was a lot of rust underneath and they wouldn't guarantee
a good seal as was stated in their warranty.

Unfortunately I didn't get a chance to see how bad the rust was before the
glass was replaced but I can tell you that they disturbed the area
underneath and after they put in a new seal (I think) and new glass my van
leaked water quite badly in the rain.

On the trip for my move to Austin, it rained heavily for 3 straight days,
and my previously dry as a bone van filled up with water and soaked the
front carpet for the rest of the trip.  The backing of the front carpet
becomes water absorbent over time and a wet carpet can stay that way for
several days.

The rust is now visible from the outside and I have to get it repaired when
I can afford to repaint it.  The seal is also no good and needs to be
replaced making me wonder if the glass shop replaced the seal.

Most recently I found some rust and "soft" metal behind the fresh air grill
while I was replacing the foam seals on the air flaps...think happy
thoughts.

-- 
Richard
1978 Westfalia CDN
Cupertino, CA
