To: "John Connolly" <john(-at-)aircooled.net>, "George Lyle"
From: "Miles Erickson" <miles.erickson.type2(-at-)gmail.com>
Date: Sun, 6 Mar 2005 20:18:18 -0800
Subject: Re: [T2] Pierburg carb defects?

> ok; how about we do quality control on our parts, and allow returns on
carbs
> and electrical items without question?

I think John made his point in these first two lines.  His style of doing
business may not be as "communalist" as some of us would like, and his
communcation style can be a little abrupt, but we know what we're getting when
we order from him.  I have a lot of respect for someone who can sell quality
stuff and make a profit.  It's annoying when someone decent goes out of
business because he's been charging less than what his products/services are
really worth.

For my part, I roll over in my grave whenever I see cip1 recommended on the
list.  Or, I would if I lived in a grave, anyway.  I've never ordered from
them for a lot of reasons, not least that the company's name itself is
misleading... but also because even the folks who like cip1 are quick to point
out that they're happily willing to sell junk alongside real parts.  When it
comes to buying parts for my Bus, the "caveat emptor" situation is totally
no-go.  Saving forty bucks is not worth getting stranded halfway between
Seattle and L.A. when someone's expecting me on the other end.

When I buy something for my VW, the most important thing is that it works and
works well.  With respect to the vendors who participate on the list, they all
seem to have a few things in common: (1) they won't sell just any part -- it
has to meet their standards, (2) they stand behind their stuff, and (3)
they're decent people.

Do I wish that VW parts vendors would join the 21st century and start
e-mailing tracking numbers when they ship stuff?  Absolutely!  But honestly,
without the list-participating vendors as a source for quality parts, I would
have given up on my Bus long ago.  They make all the difference -- and that's
coming from someone who lives in Seattle*.

I'm particularly grateful for all the excellent parts that I've received from
The Bus Depot and aircooled.net.

- Miles



Miles Erickson
'71 Dragon Bus

* in Seattle it is very easy to find VW parts locally, but things bought at
Bow Wow do not inspire the same level of confidence as things bought from our
trusted list-vendors.

please send personal replies to myfirstname(-at-)myfullname.com
