Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 00:31:57 +0000 (GMT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Martin Strandgard <mnstra(-at-)unimelb.edu.au>
Subject: Re: [T2] Lubricating heater booster fan

On Mon, 7 Mar 2005, Martin Strandgard wrote:

> Is there a correct way to lubricate the heater booster fan?

Yes.  Disassemble the motor completely, lubricate both bearings with a
high quality electric motor oil and reassemble.

> I took it out on the weekend and found that it doesn't appear the case
> was intended to be taken apart.

By VW?  That's correct, it was not, but it can be.

> However, there is a small hole near the blade end on the underneath side
> of the motor. I squirted WD40 in there which seemed to fix the problem.
> Is this what VW intended or a happy coincidence?

It is not what VW intended... VW intended that you should buy a new fan.
If the fan became NLA, VW intended that you buy a new bus.  That VW buses
last for 30+ years is, however, a happy accident.  It is NOT what VW
intended!

Quieting the bearing by squirting WD-40 into it is a happy, but very
temporary, coincidence.  If you go to any HVAC shop or a REAL hardware
store they will happily sell you a bottle of lube for electric motors.
This is much more permanent lubrication than the parafin that is the
primary ingredient in WD-40!  At the point where the voltage draw rises,
the bearings are at the point of siezing and *any* lube is better than
none, but a proper light motor oil is far better than parafin (kerosene in
the US).

The lube holes I have seen will only allow lubrication of the bearing at
the fan end of the motor, however.  To lube the bearing at the other end,
you do have to disassemble the motor and withdraw the rotor.  It is
possible, but it has been many years since I have done it and I cannot
describe the steps offhand.  Do be careful as you disassemble it to note
the order and position of any thrust washers that are on the shaft as they
are critical to the motor's function and longevity. Note also that at the
point where the bearings ae squealing or frozen, most of the damage is
already done.  Lubrication may help but there is no guarantee that the
motor is not headed for the scrap pile no mater what you do.

OOK!
