Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 00:58:38 +0000 (GMT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fooling the CHT gauge

On Sat, 5 Mar 2005, Dave C. Bolen wrote:

> Richard, As I understand it, CHT is mostly to make sure you are
> not running too lean(or hot for any other reason).  My aircraft buddy
> uses his to adjust his carbs(and the regular purpose).

EGT is a more direct reading of fuel mixture than CHT, which is why
aircraft use it.  Many aircraft will use a multi-needle gauge with one
sensor hooked to each cylinder to show the mixture and combustion in each
cylinder.  A bit "overkill" for a vehicle, IMHO, but if you have infinite
resouces it is something worth looking into.  Heat gets into the cylinder
head from the combusted gasses that are exiting the engine through the
exhaust, thus CHT is really a proxy measurement of EGT.  The lower the
temperature of these gasses, all things being equal (which they rarely
are), the lower the temperature of the cylinder head.

One good thing about EGT sensors, if they are located 10cm or more from
the exhaust valve is that they will notify you of exhaust leaks before
they allow cold air to hit the back of the hot valve and warp the valve.
They will also notify you of a leaking valve, a defective injector,
mis-set valve clearances, and a number of other problems.

> An EGT gauge is pretty much mandatory in a plane as well.
> Why, I am not too sure, but I can't imagine anything but your ears
> that is going to detect a leak at the exhaust manifold.

Before Mr. Tujela embarked on his journey from sea-level to 5,000 feet I
noted warnings that he would have to re-jet to compensate for altitude.
For his bus, this is probably a rare transition.  For an aircraft, the
transition has to be part of the design.  As aircraft change altitude the
fuel mixture has to be changed to reflect that change on a regular basis
during each flight. Exhaust gas temperature is a direct reflection of the
change in fuel/air mix thus the sensor is near mandatory.

On the exhaust leak, Mr. Tujela's card test sound like a good one and
intend to try it out.  I would like further information on how he prevents
the air blowing over the cylinders from interfereing.  This would not be a
problem with a watercooled engine, but would interfere with the test on an
aircooled engine.  It does sound good enought that I will try it next time
I suspect a leak.

OOK!
