From: "Seann Stafford" <seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com>
To: "bus" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 05:13:01 -0800
Subject: Did you know Ratwell was a standard?

So there I am, sitting on my keister, sick on a weekend, when I channel flip
past the local public access station here in Portland Oregon.

A dubber unknown to me by appearance (and no, I never caught the guys name)
is sitting there with a beer in his hand talking about how he is travelling
the U.S. in a circuit, helping folks fix their busses.

Several scenes show him helping an asian lady with her typeIV motor in her
driveway.  Both of them talking about how their engine parts are mixed and
matched and not correct for the year of that bus, but they're going to make
it work.  She mentions how she purchased it on the samba, etc., etc.

The film then flashes back to the guy, this time without a wrench, but
holding that beer again, and chatting it up with, I assume, the
cameraman/interviewer.  He tells a very amusing story about how he has to
make two mismatched heads work for a family that was going to go to a hippy
style concert of some sort, and he has to get a bunch of washers to make one
of the heads fit right.  He then says "It's definately not Bentley and it's
certainly not up to the Ratwell standard".  At this point I say 'Hey! I know
of Ratwell! I've been to his website and have read loads of his emails on
the list in real time.'

Anyway, I figured that the folks on this list would find it interesting that
Richard is now a standard for bus specs.  Flattering to say the very least.
Richard you should be proud!  What a small world.  I still have no idea what
the title of the program was, but whoever he is, he holds our very own
ratwell in the highest regard.  I wonder if the gentleman in my television
can also be seen in text on this list?  I was just happy to see buses on my
television.

Seann Stafford
1976 T2, Krista (Big Red Loafa Bread)
1976 T2, Freidrich  (Freddy)
seann.stafford(-at-)ints.com
