Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 11:23:32 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Embarrassing....

On Mon, 7 Mar 2005 10:09:32 -0500 Jamey Charlet wrote:

> So.....how in the heck do I clean that crud off of the battery terminals
> without electrocuting myself?

NOTE1: Contrary to what others have said here a 12 Volt automobile battery
*can* kill you. It would take EXACTLY the right combination of
circumstances and the odds probably in the "billions to 1" category, but it
*can*. It has enough juice to pass through a body that has low enough
resistance.

But, to get an idea of the conditions required -- take a little 9volt radio
battery and touch it to the side of your pinky finger. Feel anything?
Probably not. 

Now warm your finger up (just rub it for friction or
something, no fire needed) and coat it in something water based and
conductive that won't just run off (maybe KY with a little salt mixed in to
approximate heavy sweat). Touch the 9V to your finger now -- probably feel
just a (VERY) little tingle. 

Now touch it some place where the skin is thinner and it stays wet all the
time (GET that OUT of your NOSE!!) like your tongue. Ever do that as a kid?
You can da** sure feel it now. And that's a 9V battery that can only
provide a few MILLIamps. Your 12V battery can provide several hundred AMPS
for a few seconds.

If you have a weak heart (maybe you don't even know there's a problem) all
it takes is one solid jolt of a few microseconds to knock the beat out of
kilter and make it stop.

If you have to work around electricity of ANY type:

1. Don't do it after strenuous activity. Believe it or not stressed muscles
have lower electrical resistance than rested ones.
2. Don't do it wet -- especially with sweat which is one of the most
contaminated (with foreign substances, not toxic) and conductive liquids
out there -- plus, if you're sweaty you probably don't meet requirement #1.

There are other rules for working with AC power. You can pretty much ignore
them when working with a car battery. AC tends to "grab" you by causing the
affected muscles to expand and contract only small amounts -- but very
fast. A DC jolt will cause the affected muscles to *either* expand OR
contract -- rapidly -- and the resulting "jerking" tends to throw you away
from the source of the electricity.

With a disconnected battery there is very little chance you will actually
succeed in touching both posts to a spot near enough to your heart to pass
a jolt through it. There is also no chance you will get shocked pouring or
spraying water on it. there has to be a current path from the negative to
the positive post through you . Unless you've attached a cable to one of
them and buried it at your feet it's not there (and dirt has too much
natural resistance to pass 12 volts at high amps anyway). 

Spraying or pouring water on the battery also will not "short it out". The
path between posts has to stay constant. you'd have to submerge the battery
in a tub so both posts were under to do that. If a streak of water does
manage to connect the two posts for a split second it will flash off into
hydrogen and oxygen and blow away before you even notice it

NOTE1: These are the THOROUGH instructions -- they can be condensed to a 2
minute baking soda/wire brush/reinstall if you're in a hurry.

NOTE: Instructions below assume a fairly modern "sealed" type battery. If
you have a battery that has has caps for adding water/acid you follow the
same procedures but you need to be a bit more careful to avoid getting
"stuff" inside -- especially the baking soda.

Pull the battery out. Contemplate the battery as you get yourself a Coca
Cola. No, it's not for you.

Open the Coke and pour about half over each terminal.

Wait about 30 - 60 seconds and rinse it off with a water hose.

If you're paranoid that enough water will puddle to actually short the
battery -- don't be -- but if you still are -- blot some of it off with a
disposable towel.

Now mix yourself a baking soda and water solution. Heavy on the baking
soda, but not a paste. Rinse down the top and sides of the battery with
this solution to neutralize any acid mist that has clung to it over time.

Mix some up a bit thicker -- still not quite a paste -- but a really thick
liquid. Use this and a SOFT (brass) wire brush to clean the terminals on
the ends of your cables.

You can use a spray bottle to spritz the battery area with the thinner mix
as well.

Let it all air dry.

Put it back together.

Have a Coke for yourself.

Gerald
