Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 12:06:51 -0600 (Central Standard Time)
From: "Gerald V. Livingston II" <gerald.type2(-at-)sysmatrix.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Embarrassing....

On Mon, 7 Mar 2005 11:40:43 -0600 (GMT-06:00) Chris M. wrote:

> GREAT post Gerald. If I typed that much the guy in the next cubicle
> would wonder what I was doing

It was so late in arriving because I've been working on it for almost 90
minutes between doing other things -- and I kept adding as other posted.

<grin>

> ANYHOW... Just wanted to add to be SURE to remove the battery for this.
> I have seen folks do this without removing the battery and all that acid
> and cleaning junk just pools under the battery

Not the primary reason for removing the battery to do this.

The "billions to 1" guesstimate of actually getting a bad jolt from a car
battery is real close.

Most automotive electrical injuries are caused by "reactive force". And
many people have actually been killed by it (more than by 12 volt
electrocution I'm sure).

"Reactive force"??

"The force with which one moves in the opposite direction of that big a$$
spark caused by touching something metallic to a place that bridges the
positive and negative posts of a battery with xxx hundred amps available."

More people who work on batteries still in the car get stitches in the back
of their head than electrical burns elsewhere. In that tight hole where a
bus battery sits you're gonna tear up more than your head trying to get
away from something that won't hurt you in the first place.

*NOT* reacting takes training -- lots. I was also a Navy electrician for
9.5 years. I think I realized I finally "passed" when I "located" a live
440volt cable that had been cut and left dangling by crossing my meter
leads as I tried to get a reading from the "wire nubs" sticking out to see
if it was "hot". 

When it went "boom" I quietly said "sh**" and didn't move at all. I was at
the top of a 12 foot ladder with no place to attach a safety harness. The
"new guy" holding the bottom of the ladder almost dumped me when he jumped
away. And he sprained his ankle.

I was glad I wear glasses that day. I had to climb down "blind" and clean
up before I could go back up and test the wires -- the same way -- to see
if I had made the breaker trip wherever it was. I looked like a cartoon
character that has had a "bomb" explode in their face. Completely black
with soot -- looked like a raccoon when I took my glasses off. Made sure
the new guy was OK then started back up the ladder.

Gerald
