Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 20:56:40 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: john(-at-)aircooled.net
Subject: pierburgs, craps and john

always glad to start a food fight!  i'm on digest and have 2 small 
kids to delay my reading, so pardon the tardiness...

first off: i have NO PROBLEM with john and a/c.net; in fact,  a few 
years ago i purchased what must have been one of the last NOS 
30pict1s with electric choke in the US  from him. it POURED gas out 
the squirter nozzle when the motor was shut off (wasn't a bad float 
valve...  corroded check valves in carb body? who knows?). i told him 
that i had a used one that already did that :)  he allowed me to 
return it - minus a small fee for de-NOSing it. i've also rented a 
tool that he allowed me several extra weeks to use (see: 2 small 
children and time).

IF i had the extra $50 or so for john's carbs vs. cip1, i would have 
purchased it from him, knowing i could exchane it. having a 
one-income family sometimes means i have to make decisions based on 
what is in my paypal account, NOT quality of the vendor - we don't 
have credit cards.  now, i did due diligence: i searched samba and 
google, and found just 1 man who had 2 bad carbs. so it hadn't 
occurred to me that other vendor's rejects were perhaps being 
unloaded by the online folks; didn't seem to be any probs to reject. 
now i know better. hopefully, mine will be fine when i install it. if 
not, tough titty for me, as cip1 not only has a NO RETURN policy, 
they have not a clue what they sell. tech guy couldn't even tell me 
what jets came in it.  i have learned something about cip1, and will 
avoid them in future. just another CRAppy Parts Supplier.

while i do think john was a bit brusque, it didn't really bother me 
that much. some people patiently answer every charge like the Two 
Ronnies, some don't have the time or temperament.  i've hassled john 
enough by email and phone to appreciate him too much to be too put 
out by a testy email.  i wish he'd at least hinted at what to look 
for, but there ya go. if he says it preserves his edge in business, 
so be it. i also wish he'd mentioned the problems BEFORE i bought my 
carb from cip1, LOL!

hopefully, someone else will let us all know their experiences and 
fixes ...WHY do i have the sinking feeling that this person will be 
ME?  ;)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
