Date: Mon, 7 Mar 2005 21:19:23 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Subject: engine out

now, in keeping with our recent thread about CRAPPY aftermarket parts!

i had posted last week to the VB list moaning about needing a 
phoenix-area guru for my AL Hell motor - got no replies. should have 
requested priest or witch doctor, i guess.

anyways, i pulled it late one night. it had been leaking oil from 
every orifice; in fact, when i went to remove the oil piston plugs, 
they came out with no resistance. now, these had been HAMMERED tight 
with a chisel not 500 miles before.  that explains the huge leak they 
had.  sump plate leaked (stud came out, too), fw seal leaked. 
crap-ass aluminum case!

anyways, when i drained the oil after warming it up, there were a LOT 
of tiny bubbles. and i didn't see don ho anywhere, so i was thinking 
this ain't good. i am running semi-syn, and unless one of you tells 
me that SS gets bubbly real easy when drained, i need to look for an 
air leak somewhere - bad o-ring in pickup tube?

next, i found many small pieces of orange viton in the bell housing; 
these made a perfect circle. so the fw seal is shedding/getting 
chewed.

last, it had been vibrating, despite claims that dpr had balanced 
crank assembly. so either i did something wrong, or they lied to my 
parts vendor. 50/50 on that one....

i strippd it to the long block - took 2 days, as the 2yrold kept 
wanting to 'help.'  i did confirm that much oil was coming from the 
gen tower... last time i had it off to deal with belt problems, i'd 
stupidly flipped the metal baffle around. oops.  also, found the gen 
pulley backed off AGAIN. don't know if the threads on the shaft are 
bad, the pulley (pimppride 'german' pulley) is bad, or what.  i had 
even loctited it last time it went loose!  good thing i have a NOS 
cast iron pulley from busboys to try out.

took a deep breath, weighed our negligible bank balance vs. the 
reality of building a motor with a kid who likes to drop things into 
the case, and hauled it off to competition engineering in tempe. they 
had spent some time with me on the phone, and seemed to understand 
being penniless :)

anyways, dan spent a good half-hour with me while his wife watched 
eric and ayler... so there was a free 30 mins of babysitting in their 
plus column. dan went over what i'd done and why, what problems i was 
having, and what i wanted from the motor. i also stressed several 
times that i was broke :)  really dan - i'll come in over night and 
do parts-washing if it helps!

he gave me a decent estimate (which i know will likely expand). 
hopefully he won't report too many problems left in this sorry thing, 
and we can get it reassembled and try out that new pierburg carb!

he did agree with me that IF i can wring the last bugs out, this 
should be the last case i ever need. we'll see......
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
