From: "Todd Fockler" <toddfockler3(-at-)rogers.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 17 Jun 2004 08:16:47 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Cylinder head probs

  Thanks to all for the suggestions. I'm going to have a look under the one
   valve cover and see if there is anything obvious that has come loose. Then
   I'll most likely swap the motor/tranny while I take my time fixing the
  other
   one. Thanks for saving me 8hr of busted knuckles, and bent /punched <grin
   engine tin. Definitely sounds much less frustrating to pull the motor.
Todd



    You can do it in the car, but in my experiences, you have to really bend
   the
    tin good on the 3/4 side cause the oil cooler is there.  Much easier, and
    faster to pull the motor.  Before i pulled the head, I would take off the
    rocker arms to look if the valve stems are same height.  If so, then the
    head is not the problem.  Also, i have had rocker shafts get loose or the
    little nut come off............i always loctite them now.


    Adam P
    Charleston,SC     Coburn, WV
    70 Single Cab "Whitey"
    74 Beetle "Ol Yeller"
    73 Transporter (STILL at paint shop)
    1988 Vanagon Wolfsburg
    1976 Transporter (New CA bus)
    1974 412 "Goldmember"
    1972 VW Super Beetle


       So I'm on my way back from Busfusion (Ontario) this weekend and I lose
    #4.
     Ran a compression tonight and the results are: 1-3 all 120 PSI #4 0 PSI.
   I
    was
     hoping to pull the left head off without taking the motor out and see if
   I
    can
     get away with just doing the valves or maybe change/rebuild the head.
   Am
    I
     crazy? Is it possible to pull the head without dropping the motor? If I
    end up
     dropping the motor I might just swap it with my other bus (paint job).
    One
     thing is for sure.... got to have it up and running for the Jitterbug in
    two
     weeks. Any Suggestions?



       Todd Fockler
       Toronto, Ontario, Canada

       77 Westy yellow and orange
       77 Westy Chrome Yellow (project in the works)
