Date: Thu, 17 Jun 2004 09:31:22 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: s r <bugs1973(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Windsheild wipers help, Long?...longer now

Shawn,

Windshield wiper motors are weird...just no two ways about it.

I just finished up working with one that I had out on the bench from
a 68 bus that I was putting in another car.

Since I don't have the schematics in front of me, I will try to do it from
memory.  Basically, you have a ground wire that should attach to the
frame of the motor.

After that, there is a hi and low speed wire and another "brown" wire to
the motor itself as well as another wire.  You have electrical
wiper contacts for the different wires that contact on a gear inside the
gear box that moves the bell crank on the motor.

Relay's tend to start confusing the connections at this point, but
you start with the motor itself and work from there.

The problem comes with the way that it has to work....you turn the switch
on and the wipers start working, you turn it off in mid cycle and what has
to happen???....power still has to get to the motor until it gets to the  
"park" spot and then shut itself off automagically....this is part of what
the wiper contacts inside the gear box do, as well as the switch.

If the motor doesn't have much resistance(wiper blades) to slow it down
some, the gear will continue turning past the "park" circuit and make  
another turn.  I actually had to provide some resistance(with my hand) to
get it to work right on the bench.  I might mention at this point that   
having fingers caught inside the mechanical part of the wipers is a   
serious bummer...the motors have a great amount of mechanical force and
will mangle your fingers and other sensitive parts of your body with no
problem.

So, you should have 4 wires plus a ground wire to the motor.  
Hi speed
Lo speed
2 mystery wires....brown(probably) and black/violet?
ground to frame

Ok, back to the relay, to make a long story short, let's go thru your 
statements down below.

Cheers, dave
-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Tue, 15 Jun 2004, s r wrote:

> Hello everyone, I have been fighting a losing fight
> with my windshield wipers. Here is the story, a couple
> of months ago I got in my 78 westy and started her, as
> soon as there was power to the system my wipers was
> going at a constant slow speed. I thought I might have
> bumped the switch, but no matter where I moved the
> switch they would not stop. So I pulled the fuse and
> they stopped. 
> 

ok, good, no power, no go


> This is what I've tried, I first unplugged the wiper
> switch, but they kept going and didn't stop.

Hmmm..how did you do this?  The wiper switch has multiple
contacts on it, you pull entire connector at once?


 I believe
> this would rule out the switch? Am I right or wrong? I
> then was told the motor went bad and I needed to
> replace it. So I went and bought a used motor. I
> plugged the motor in before I was about to tear the
> dash apart. This other motor does the same thing, it
> just goes and goes. 

See note above about having to provide some resistance to the motor
so it can "find" the park spot.


I then found and pulled out the
> intermittent wiper relay. Now with this relay out my
> wipers stop, but only will work in high, and when I
> turn the switch off my wipers do not return. 

Ahhh!  now to the relay...basically, all it is is a "flasher"...it sends a 
pulse to the low speed side of the motor and then quits...then the park 
circuit takes over untill it pulses power to the low speed circuit again 
after a certain amount of "wait" time.  Sounds like your relay is stuck 
"on" and is not letting the power "die" when the park circuit comes around 
to stop.

> delay. my 79 bus doesn't have the delay option so I
> can't test it on it. I also haven't found a new relay
> yet.
> 
> So if anyone has any other option or things to look
> for PLEASE let me know.
> Thank You!
> Shawn R.
> 78 Westy
> 79 Bus
