Date: Sat, 7 Dec 2002 21:11:55 -0800 (PST)
From: David Kelly <volknstein(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Free stuff update, More FREE stuff and somthing to sell

Hello List,

Well, I several people will be getting free parts
already.  I didn't realize how hard it was to pick who
would get what. Several things have been spoken for
but I still have some things left. 

List presents that I have left:

1 new Bosch Distributor cap

1 complete front driver's side door vent window.

1 oil breather box from a type IV bus engine

1 gas injection tube for the 32/34 solex bus carbs

Here are some new things for FREE

one oil filter arm from a bus

2 GOOD distributor vacuum canisters. one is a single
vacuum canister and the other is a double vacuum
canister. IF anyone knows how to identify them, I will
let you know what they are for.

1 ,almost complete, 32/36 progressive carb settup for
a IV bus. I installed a rebuild kit on this carb a
couple of years ago. It comes with a new air filter.
It needs 2 new long threaded rods to hold the air
cleaner assembly down with and it needs the 4 urthane
boots that atach the intake runners to the air plenumn
as well as a gasket to attach the carb to the air
plenum. Everything on it needs to be properly adjusted
but it sholdnt take too much effort to get it working
properly. (a small shipping fee)

2 NEW intake manifold gaskets (these are the thick
black plastic type gaskets) for a FI bus

2 914 Porsche triangular port exhaust manifolds with
metal shields that wrap around them. These may or may
not be the same as the ones used on late model FI
buses. (shipping required b/c they are heavy!)

1 windshield washer bottle. I don't know if it will
hold air preasure or not but it is FREE. It souldn't
leak any water. 

If you need any particular type IV engine gasket, let
me know. I don't have any pushrod tube seals or oil
cooler seals to speak of. I have a partial set of
German type IV bus gaskets that I can pick out of. Let
me know.

For Sale!!!

one REFURBISHED gas tank from a 74 bus. IT has been
throughly cleaned. Rusted was removed and the engine
treated with Metal Ready. It was then treated with the
POR 15 gas tank sealer. I am also going to treat the
outside of the tank with POR 15 paint. This tank had
almost no rust or build up in it to start with and it
is now like new. I want $40 plus shipping. It includes
a good used gas tank screen. It needs a fuel guage
sender and seal.

Let me know what you want. Have a great day!

David Kelly
213 ILEX Drive
Wilmington, NC 28412
