Date: Sun, 23 Nov 2003 19:48:23 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] tranny swap...axles pull

when swapping axles, go ahead and remove the fulcrum plates, which are the rectangular things with a curve on one side. (2 for each axle) check both for wear, grooves worn in or chunks missing are bad.  take the best from the two trannies

 check the axle shafts for wear, grooves are bad, put a straight edge against the spade to check.   they are the same l and r, and for little and big nuts, so take the best from the two trannies.  check to make sure the groove for the circlip at the outside end is still there and will hold the circlip which holds the bearing from sliding around and wearing things. 

 F Plates are the same as well, except 59 and earlier are really flat on the flat side (check against a flat surface, the later ones are .2 mm curved end to end I this it goes.  you don't want to mix and match early and late, or they self destruct (how did i find out? PITA) 

remove the crown gears, which is what the fps and spade of axle slide into, check for cracks and wear, use your best ones.   crown gears and fps are the same on swing axle bugs, and less worn in bugs, so if you have a chance to get a cheap/free swing axle bug tranny scavenge these bits from it.  Crown gears should slide in/out easily. If they don't, wrangle the first out, then you can tap the 2nd out from the other side.   clean up the inside of the tranny of any outie grooves so the gear slides in/out smoothly (not sloppy) 

  when checking fp/axle clearance in the crown gear as in the Bentley, realise that the axle will be pulled out slightly, this affects clearance with old parts.  

make sure the fps don't slip round under the end of the axle when installing the axle, or the axle won't seat properly and you'll get frustrated.   I use grease to stick the fps to the crown gear before putting the axle in, and making sure it slides in all the way.

you can swap the axles over so the less worn face goes in the forward direction.   when looking at the center section of the tranny from the right side that means the axle turns counterclockwise, remember it gets reduction gears.  other side opposite of course.

install the axle boots with the tranny on the ground, but don't tighten the little clamp till it's installed, or you could tear the boots as the axle turns.  wait till it's in the bus to fill it.  

Oh ya, drain both trannies thoroughly first before pulling axles, it'll drip ickly stuff on you.

hope that helps

Clara
...................................
In a message dated 11/23/2003 5:15:50 PM Eastern Standard Time, rexrogers(-at-)type2guy.com writes:

> So can I slip these axles right into the replacement tranny without 
> changing anything else? Or are there some parts from inside the old 
> tranny where the axles go that need to be swapped over?
> 
> I've got a Bentley and will be looking at it for a while 
> now. Thanks 
> for the help so far.
> -- 
