From: OldVolks General <General(-at-)OldVolks.com>
To: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com, vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org, apillow(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2003 07:37:22 -0800
Subject: RE: [VB] Alternative "VW" nose badge

  I think it's time to promote Shakey Jake, he taught Von Dutch, but never
got the credit (he could care less, not a self promoter). For those of you
who don't know who Shakey was, he was THE KING of pin strip, drove an oval
ART CAR around so Cal from the early 60's to the early 80's when he died. If
you saw his oval you'd know he was there (anybody have pics of Shakeys
bug?). I was fortunate enough back in the early 70's to live next to Shakeys
protigi (Rick) in Costa Mesa, Cali and was lucky enough to have Shakey pin
strip an old Schwinn cruiser for me, wish I still had it!!!

ronnie  hummmm a shakey t-shirt with a pic of his oval?

-----Original Message-----
From: Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com [mailto:Type2Guy(-at-)aol.com]
Sent: Monday, November 24, 2003 1:31 AM
To: vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org; apillow(-at-)hotmail.com
Cc: vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Alternative "VW" nose badge


Ain't it a bitch?  Seems like everytime I wear a von dutch t-shirt or my
bike
jacket with a von dutch patch on it, people ask where to get one.  I make it

a point to educate them on the finest pinstriper/customizer of all time.

It was real funny at the last OCTO.  I'm sittin in the EZ sportin my
VonDutch
t-shirt when some older fella stops and mumbles to his friend about how
"that
kid probably doesn't know who VonDutch was"  We ended up having about a
half-hour conversation.  That guy was lucky enough to have spent a lot of
time with
him in his later years.

As for the maltese cross......yeah it's getting played out....but what cool
thing isn't-sooner or later.  I think my EZ may be sportin one at
Havasu...with
a big flying eyeball underneath it.
I'm actually glad to see a resurgence of the hot rod/kustom scene.  Sure as
hell beats the riced out hondas.

Beto
63EZ
73Thing
Murrieta, CA


In a message dated 11/23/2003 9:17:32 PM Pacific Standard Time,
vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org writes:
and what the HELL is up w/ von dutch??? a TRUE american weirdo icon
AND vw-lover turned into a hottie-label clothing line aka abercrombie
and childpornfitch? i mean, did his relatives sell his corpse the
SECOND he died, or what????????? hopefully he comes back from the
grave and pokes their eyes out with the pointy end of his camelhair
pinstriper.
