Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2003 10:15:00 -0800 (PST)
From: kannonkorv <kannonkorv(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Squeeky Bouncy Pain (lowered '65 problems)

Hi everyone,
 
I wrote about my stiff front end suspension in my lowered '65 about a month ago.  I did not lower the bus so I don't know exactly how it was done.  The rear is IRS and the front has drop spindles.  The list suggestion was to remove my torsion arms and check to see if I have any leaves in the torsion tubes.  Okay I've finally accomplished that (I don't want to get into why it took me a month) :P.  Here is what I found
 
Each beam had a fully assortment of 9 leaves each.  (I read through the archives and 9 seems to be the magic number for my year of bus)  They do seem to be seperated at the drivers side end (I haven't taken off the passenger side).  I mention that because I've seen word about arc welding the ends of the leaves.  Any ideas now as to why my bus ride would be so rough?  I should note that the top bolt for the shock absorber (drivers side) was slightly bent when I removed it; is that normal?  Is there a way to test a shock to see if it needs to be replaced?   
 
TIA,
 
Kurt
'65 Kombi
 
PS. Ran into the "MX" codes in the archives :-) 
 
Here is the relivant information from my first post 1 month ago
 
...Anyway the ride is very rough, especially in the front
end.  Driver and passenger motor along in my bus with
teeth clenched as each pebble and dip jar your brains
loose.  Sometimes the tires (50 series dunlops) even
squeek (rub against the chassie) in the front end when
I hit a large bump.  The back end seems okay as the
middle seat isn't very bouncy at all.  Now the
driverside wheel rubs against the chassie much more
often than it used to.  There is only about a fingers
width between the tire rubber and body :(.  On the
passenger side there is at least 2 fingers and it
performs like it always has.  I don't know how much
room there was between rubber and body on the driver
side in the past, all I know is that it didn't used to
rub as often as it does now.  

I took the drum off and looked at the
spindle...dosen't currently look bent but I haven't
really seen enough of them in good condition to make a
judgment.  Obviously my bus needs a narrowed front
beam (or set to a different ride height).

The guy I got the bus from hadn't done the
modifications himself nor did he know much about the
mechanics of a bus.  He said he bought it from a
welder. There was a beautiful custom made aluminum
roof rack on the bus supposedly made by that person. 
This was the guy who also lowered the bus and took
care of the major rust spots.

Others have looked at the bus and confirmed that the
front end has drop spindles.

I do not drive the bus now...not until I can figure
out if it is safe.

My questions are:

Is the rough ride normal?  It is something as simple
as replacing the front shocks?

Any ideas as to why the driverside would rub/squeek
much more now?  A better question perhaps; why is the
tire twice as close to the chassie on the drivers
side?  I cannot recal hitting anything hard enough to
bend the spindle.  I weigh the same...

What are my options for smoothing out the ride? 
Any clues/web pages I can review for more info on
lowered front end suspensions for 64-67 busses?  I've
read the archives and all the info I could find at
type2.com, vintagebus.com and other great sites.

My plan is to fix this as best I can and ensure that
it is safe then probably sell the bus so I can buy
something that fits me a little better.  I live in
Seattle so any info on VW suspension specialists in
the area is welcome!

Thanks for your time and patience!

Kurt
Seattle '65 Kombi
