Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2003 18:40:06 -0500
From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
To: kannonkorv(-at-)yahoo.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Squeeky Bouncy Pain (lowered '65 problems)

as long as the leaves aren't cracked//broken you should be fine.  To check that (hopefuly the torsion atm is still off and teh bus jacked up, you undo the nut nuts/allem headed pinch set screws (three per beam), and pull the leaves out as a unit. if they are broken, you need to replace them.  if not, slide them back in, get them all set in place, installed set screws and lock nuts, and put it back together.

I don't think the ends being welded really makes much of a difference.

with shocks installed, stand on the bumper and jump off.  the up and down bounce should disappear real quick.   

or remove front shocks.   push them as together as they can go, then pull them apart.   If this is easy, get new ones.  they should push back against you.  hm, I think some push themselves back out, it's been a while for me.   If there are crunchie noises, get new ones.    No, the bolt should not be bent.

other thing is lowered buses need special length shocks, ane yours the right lengths?  I dunno what it should be.

if your links are bad, sounds like Ronnie has a good deal on new links right now.

In a message dated 11/24/2003 1:15:00 PM Eastern Standard Time, kannonkorv(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

>I wrote about my stiff front end suspension in my lowered '65 about a month ago. 
 Each beam had a fully assortment of 9 leaves each.  (I read through the archives and 9 seems to be the magic number for my year of bus)  They do seem to be seperated at the drivers side end (I haven't taken off the passenger side).  I mention that because I've seen word about arc welding the ends of the leaves.   Any ideas now as to why my bus ride would be so rough?  I should note that the top bolt for the shock absorber (drivers side) was slightly bent when I removed it; is that normal?  Is there a way to test a shock to see if it needs to 
> be replaced?   
> 
> TIA,
