Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2003 20:00:16 -0500
From: rob <coerver(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: [VB] Re: Another Lazy Mechanic

I got to pipe up here..

Diane wrote..
>>He came to my house on Sunday.  Asked what all I needed fixed.  I tell him
the bolt, the center pivot bushing, wipers installed, electrical work,
clutch adjustment ... first his says the bushing and the bolt were both too
big a job for him .. then I tell him the others .. he said he was VERY BUSY
and I should contact him in a few weeks .. What kind of mechanic is this ??
<<

I don't know if you read my post awhile back about center pin bushing replacement.  I was planning to do it myself but I was real busy at work so I figured I would have a __very__ cool mechanic who is a VW ONLY guy does super resto work etc etc.  He told me that he wouldn't do the center pin bushing job, that it was a "bear" of a job.  

Now, at this point did I grumble about him being lazy and think "what kind of mechanic is this?". No, I really like and respect this guy. Yeah, I suddenly got daunted by the task. But everyone on the list replied "I do it in 1/2 hr!" & "i do it with two #5 screwdrivers" & "i do with a piece of allthread i found walking home the other day" and someone I know said it was "a perfect piece of cake".  All LIES!! 

So, I did it myself. It wasn't fun, but the feeling of being done was, and if I had to do it again, it wouldn't be too bad.   Part of the reason I am back into wrenching is to build up my sense of accomplishment. 

I guess the point of the story is that yeah, its gonna be hard to find people to fix your old vw, but the more you do yourself, the more understanding and empathy you have and also a sense of who can will do the work properly ( and more often than not its YOU! ). It sounds like you got a sting of bad mechanics I agree, but don't count your own ability out, I didn't 

Not even my friends will help me when I beg/bribe them, my girlfriend helped me put in new windshield glass when I first got the bus and now see just rolls her eyes when I mention it.  It can be a lonely road, and then when you got the bus cleaned up and running good, and you proudly pull into a pahhrking lot for some groceries, some jack off makes those h_ppy remarks "are the dead in town?" etc. 

I have found that if you emerge from the bus with some bearing grease on your face no one talks to you at all.

use the list - it works!

-rob
