From: "VWguy" <pickit(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "rob" <coerver(-at-)mindspring.com>, <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 24 Nov 2003 20:30:09 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: Another Lazy Mechanic

Here is the thing. Some people just don't feel comfortable with a wrench in
their hand. Its all part of Gods plan. Some people are good at writing
poetry and some are good at fixing cars. Its that simple.

This poor girl has been told over and over to fix the da*n bus herself and
she just doesn't want to do it. I sympathize with her. I tried for years to
learn how to play golf and I finally realized that I was not cut out to be a
golfer and gave it up.

OTOH, there should be a mechainic _somwhere on earth_  that is honest,
reasonable, knows how to, and is willing to work on her car. She's just had
rotten luck finding him (or her). Too bad she doesn't live in Atlanta or I'd
work on it.

Kevin Bell

.....

>>He came to my house on Sunday.  Asked what all I needed fixed.  I tell him
the bolt, the center pivot bushing, wipers installed, electrical work,
clutch adjustment ... first his says the bushing and the bolt were both too
big a job for him .. then I tell him the others .. he said he was VERY BUSY
and I should contact him in a few weeks .. What kind of mechanic is this ??
<<

I don't know if you read my post awhile back about center pin bushing
replacement.  I was planning to do it myself but I was real busy at work so
I figured I would have a __very__ cool mechanic who is a VW ONLY guy does
super resto work etc etc.  He told me that he wouldn't do the center pin
bushing job, that it was a "bear" of a job.

I guess the point of the story is that yeah, its gonna be hard to find
people to fix your old vw, but the more you do yourself, the more
understanding and empathy you have and also a sense of who can will do the
work properly ( and more often than not its YOU! ). It sounds like you got a
sting of bad mechanics I agree, but don't count your own ability out, I
didn't

Not even my friends will help me when I beg/bribe them, my girlfriend helped
me put in new windshield glass when I first got the bus and now see just
rolls her eyes when I mention it.  It can be a lonely road, and then when
you got the bus cleaned up and running good, and you proudly pull into a
pahhrking lot for some groceries, some jack off makes those h_ppy remarks
"are the dead in town?" etc.

I have found that if you emerge from the bus with some bearing grease on
your face no one talks to you at all.
