From: "David & Susan Bell" <bellky(-at-)charter.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 28 Mar 2003 23:03:53 -0600
Subject: Friday Sort Of Brake Light Fix

Evening, all. I came up with this little fix a couple months ago and thought
I'd pass it along. Let me say up front that I know it's not 'stock' or
'correct', but it is simple, works well, solves the original problem, and is
not noticeable to the casual observer. In fact, it's nearly invisible.
Therefore it meets my requirements for a good fix. By the way it's a 74 with
a carburated 1800.

The problem was with my brake lights; they would only come on when VERY firm
pressure was applied to the pedal, like just about enough to lock up the
wheels. I started diagnosing from the back; bulbs good, sockets good,
grounds clean and making good contact. So far, so good. The supply wires
were in good condition and the connections were clean and tight. With enough
pressure on the brake pedal I tested 12 volts to the lights, but only with
the really hard pressure. Then I tested the brake light switches themselves.
They appeared to be good, but since they were of uncertain age I replaced
both of them with new switches. Still no improvement.

The thing that bothered me was that the brakes worked perfectly. Good
stopping power, firm pedal,  and straight, even braking at both light and
heavy pressure.  I adjusted them ala Bentley anyway, still with no
improvement. That's when time began to be a factor. With only two weeks left
before a 1200 mile trip across four states, I had to get these lights
working! That's when I let my imagination loose on the problem. (Always
interesting and frequently dangerous.)

Here's how I fixed it: I used a miniature switch with a long actuating lever
that has an NC (normally closed) contact. Using a piece of angle iron to
fabricate a bracket I installed the switch under the floor pan in position
so that the brake pedal assembly in its 'at rest' state activates the
switch, thus opening the contacts. When the brake pedal is pushed even a
little bit, the switch contacts close, completing the circuit. I ran a wire
(fused) from the fuse panel to the common terminal on the switch, then from
the NC terminal all the way back to the brake light socket where it replaces
the original wire. The originals I removed, insulated with shrink tube, and
tied out of the way.

Now my brake lights work every time, the dash warning light still works, and
the original wiring is intact so that I can still go back and fix it at a
later time. Like I said: simple, neat, functional, and out of sight. I pass
this along in case anyone else is having the same problem and needs a quick
fix to stay on the road. My bus is my daily driver so I can't afford a lot
of diagnostic downtime.

All standard disclaimers apply. YMMV. Feel free to ask questions.

Regards,
Dave
