Date: Sat, 29 Mar 2003 12:38:31 -0500
From: Ben <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, mpester(-at-)charter.net
Subject: About the Solex's VS Weber, trip report & dealer bashing!

10000 miles across the USA & Baja California (Mexico) at 50mph (for 
reason that I will explain later on my site) , what a trip!!! And all 
that in a 2-month period! In a not so in shape 1973 VW T4 Bus (after 
all), doesn't matter, the adventure was exceptional and a bit crazy, 
but! Am home now and not so glad to be!  From New Orleans, to Phoenix,  
El Paso, San Antonio, San Diego, LA, Memphis, Cincinnati, Houston, 
Dallas, Grand canyon (I had fun with those stupid Solexs carbs at 8000 
feets)  and many other smaller  town and village I have seen only great 
people (American, Canadian and Mexican), I met people from all around 
the world traveling in all kind of vehicle, doesn't matter what kind of 
RV, Car, van, bus or car your traveling in, you're a traveller, a 
different kind of people / person (Especially in Baja California), you 
are mostly open minded and in a quest for new stuff.

I am back! I will make a full report on my travel this weekend, i will 
add 200 pictures of my trip on my site this week, i have seen all kind 
of weather (Snow, -10F, 95F, heavy rain and flooding, high wind, dust 
storm and so on), i tought i known the T4 engine & Carbs enough before i 
started my trip but i was wrong, now i know better, especially about the 
dual Solex. (Probably more or equal than anyone here!)

I have struggled with my solex all my trip, when i say struggle, it's a 
light word. They almost gave me a hard attack at some point, they made 
me sweat in Baja California, the left one broke down in Baja-Mexico, 
when I say broke down I mean that the choke housing that old the left 
bracket for le linkage that join the 2 carbs broke! Period! Leaving me 
stranded at night on the infamous Mex 1 highway, it took me 20 minutes 
to replace the faulty housing; I had spare Solexs in the back!!! So I 
took the part from a running to rich left cabs, with .127.5 jets?

 From no start (2 hours to start the bus) one morning to running to rich 
an other days, from hight idle to no idle an other day, from low power 
to good power an other day......... (I won't talk about the high 
altitude problem I had in the Grand Canyon!) Remember that I had 4 carbs 
+ spare parts, 4 rebuilt kit and and many intake (soft and hard) gasket, 
all where used and I had no spare parts left when I finally arrived in 
Montreal yesterday morning. I barely made it home, as I had no idle, 
very rich to flooding mixture from Toronto to Montreal. And the carbs 
are only one of the many small (And I say small) problems I had along my 
10000 miles journey. I have swap my original solex with my spare one 5 
time, I have dissected those carbs to make a final pair that would 
barely bring me home. I have no feel (with brand new CHEAP O-rings) with 
the idle adjustment screws, even if the butterfly shaft were re-bush and 
all adjustment screws holw were sanded so the O-ring would last. Even if 
you fully rebuild those carbs they are 30 years old working mechanical 
parts, period. Anything can go wrong inside the carbs and you never will 
really found the problem(S). It can be a block or partially block inside 
fuel passage, a bended casting parts.

The conclusion (Solex Carbs):
I guess they were pretty good carbs in 1972/74, they were quite advance 
with there main idle control, electric cut-off valve system, electric 
choke and so on.... Now they are 30 years old! All gasket rebuilt kit 
you can buy from part dealer sucks!!! Believe me. The only working float 
valve lever were the original Solex valve, the rebuilt kit valve were 
giving me flooding, even with a 2mm shim.
THOSE CARBS ALMOST SPOILED MY TRIP, remember that!

About the Webber (There will be some bashing here)!
In San Diego I bought a partially used (practically brand new) 
progressive Weber for 300$ USD (That's is 500$ CAD for me, sold brand 
new and complete with intake for Canada for 485$CAD at CIP1.com) from 
Bob (Mister know everything) from VW-Tech, the guys was nice at first 
helping me (I was stranded) on a Sunday. He said that this carbs was 
installed on a T4 (he specialize in T1) and the engine was blown, he was 
somewhat stock with this carbs and told me he paid 350$USD (Well, am in 
San Diego, everything is possible), also, all other dealer in the area 
were suggesting the single Weber (including VW Paradise and other, none 
of those dealer do specialize in T4!). So bob made me a final offer, he 
said: Listen Ben, if the cabs don't fit or don't work I will take it 
back and refound you the 300$ with out any problem! He convince me as I 
did want to progress in my trip, going into Baja. You should also know 
that any dual webers were special order, 3-5 days. To cut that short I 
struggle for 3 days with the Weber, never getting any idle (Brake port 
block! And intake sealed, don't worry) , puffing and other stuff (very 
bad timing to with the weber, minimum of 24deg even at 1500rpm with the 
advance vacuum port of my stock distributor attach, remember also that I 
am doing those repair on a campground in Carlsbad near San Diego), ok! 
So I call (with my cell phone!) VW Paradise (Very nice guys) and ask 
them what could be the problem, they say: Ben, you NEED a 009 
distributor with that carbs, I say: How come, distribustion is 
distribution, it as nothing to do with the puffing and missing I got!, 
well, OK, am tired and discouraged, lets take Carolyn (Girlfriend) 
brother (we met in Carlsbad) nice Vanagon (mine before) and let's get 
the 009 (buy the way, VW Paradise told me that the 050 had way to much 
advance for a T4?).
OK, I got brand new plug, new wire, new distributor (yea, the 
distribution order  was redone!) new carbs, spare blue coil, new intake 
manifold gasket with sealant (Thanks to the Type2 list!!!) brand new 
muffler,  new electric regulated (100$) fuel pump, All valve at 
.006........... 4 hours later, the almost same dam* problem, difficult 
starting, puffing, no idle!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Shitty Bus, it's been 5 days am 
stranded in Carlsbad!!!!
We are all shitting down around a starting fire and one nice helping VW 
campground friend owner said to me: maybe you got water in the fuel!!! 
IDEA! Well, everything is new, I got fire, air but do I have fuel, clean 
fuel, there is simply nothing left. Let's try that tommorow, it's now 
time to drink some beer with my new campground friends.
Nice day today, there is no carbs on the bus, I chose to put my best 
working Solexs carbs, the original Solex, I open them to remove any 
moisture, we put them back, put the longer re-routed gas pedal wire, put 
5 gallons of fresh 91 fuel, one bottle of moisture removal 
liquid........still the same problem........ it's late, I decided to 
change the upper left part of the left Solex, I start the Bus....oups, 
struggling at first, one of my fellow campgroung friend tries to help 
adjust the carbs (he as a 66 Bus), we tried fro 1 ours, I change another 
small parts... oups, it's coming, it's coming yyeaaaaaaaaaa...... it's 
working (Well, working is somewhat relative). We go try the bus with 
Derek ( a very good friend from Minnesota) and after 20 minutes of 
driving it's finaly working OK. The following day I tried the cleaned 
Weber (poorly fitting weber!) without any god success. So I called Bob 
to ask him if he could take back the carb like he told me..... NO was 
the final answer. I was polite at first but he made me mad at last... 
telling me that I didn't installed the carb properly, that my problem 
was another problem than the webber carb and so on!!! when you say 
something in life, keep your word. If I had the time to have kicked your 
ass I would have done so. Bob from VW-Tech in San diego!

Conclusion, I am stock with that Weber without knowing if it's working 
or not (I will see later), a brand new 009 distributor that I didn't use 
(Working worse than my stock one).

All aftermarket parts bought before my trip failed to work properly 
during the trip (I will deal with those dealer later, have no worry)!
Here is a few example:
-All engine gasket and O-ring (bought at CIP1) that were installed 
before my trip without Locktite 518 sealant  failed giving me heavy oil 
leak, especially the pushrod O-ring, removed them, put some new cheap 
one with Locktite 518, they don't leak after 7500 miles.
-New Manuel water pump for the sink bought a Go-westy, failed to pump 
without a leak and was difficult to turn this one out of the way to 
clear the small table, that only after 10 days of using this one, 79$.
-New regulator for my 55amp alternator, failed after 15 days. I won't 
bash the same dealer twice.
-Rebuilt alternator, failed.
-New Muffler and exhaust (4 in 1), Broke in Arizona.
-I had to use 2 brand new oil pressure sander, the first one leaked oil 
after 6000 miles and the second one is leaking now, bought at Bus Depot.

I also bought a new rear tranny stick shift square bushing in Oceanside, 
it is failing now (Thanks for the help Mark, your maple syrup is coming 
this week).

I had other small problems, but not related to new aftermarket parts. 
Overall I made it back safe and sound but I had heavy worry all the 
time. I had no major problem with the bus body (Brake, wheel bearing, 
axle and so on) and no real problem from the engine by itself, the 
little bugger kept on going no matter what were the condition of the 
road and outside temperature, valve add to be adjusted each 2000 miles 
because all exhaust valve were getting tighter at the end, the valve tip 
are getting worn right now. The engine didn't consume more than 1/2  a 
quarts per 3000 miles???? I am starting to have a somewhat crankcase 
over pressure, having more oil in the stock air filter box and inside 
the right carbs.
I am NOT bashing every aftermarket part dealer, they are doing their 
best I guest, but don't expect OEM VW quality when you buy aftermarket 
parts, period.

Conclusion: I was my best road trip ever, meeting extraordinary people 
(American, Canadian, Mexican and other around the world, Germany, France 
Belgium, Australia...)
I had help (phone, e-mail, in person) from many of you guys and other; I 
sincerely thanks all of you for that. I will express my gratitude to 
many of you guys in a personal e-mail. 

Thanks to all of you (85) from the Type2, Vanagon & Bajanet mailing list 
who offer help and assistance along the way, I drove very close to many 
of you guys, sadly I couldn't stop because I had a further destination 
those day, I have met a few of you guys and I will remember that for the 
rest of my life. I won't name any name here, you know who you are!

More to come.
Hola, Ben
http://www3.sympatico.ca/huotx/engine1.htm 

A few picture for now, 200 coming this week:
http://www.eurokitplane.com/baja1.htm
