From: dave jersey <maduncledave(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sat, 30 Mar 2002 17:49:21 -0500
Subject: first drive single port dog house

Hey y'all
Finally got all the last details done last night so I could drive the 1600 
SPDH into work this morning.

The timing and dwell were spot-on and she started up in the first revolution 
or so.  Eased the clutch out and a nice smooth engagement, no lugging, no 
chatter.  The last clutch had a spring come out of the disk and would jam in 
the pressure plate, causing a partial instead of full release at times.  It's 
about 6 miles to the main road and it took 15 minutes to get there, running 
up the gears, back down, full throttle and no throttle accelerating and 
decelerating the whole way.  Fortunately this was at 4 AM so no one else was 
out to be annoyed at the erratic speeds.  1 good hill up, and a great no 
throttle downhill.

By the time we got to the main road there was a noticeable gain in power.  
Oil pressure stayed at 45 for this part of the process, indicating the SPDH 
concept works well.  Better than the 96 plate bypass cooler I used in the 
previous incarnation..  Onto the main road, varying speeds 45-65, pissing off 
the trucker that was behind me.  I forgot to put the "Please be patient, I'm 
breaking in a new engine" sign in the rear window.  10 miles later, pull into 
the all night gas and coffee station to fill my coffee cup and the tank the 
rest of the way.  As soon as I shut her down I opened the lid and grabbed the 
dipstick.  That was cool.  Literally.  The case was warm, but not hot.

Sweet!

Backed off the throttle cable a bit so I'd have a "rev limiter" of sorts 
while I did the rest of the trip to work.  Uphill and down, mostly down into 
Hickory, letting the hills and limited throttle regulate engine speed.  Pull 
into work, grab the dipstick again, a bit warmer, case was hotter, but not 
uncomfortable to touch and she passed the Clara spit test.  

BIG GRIN

Called the wife and told her how the Tinkertoy did and didn't mind the "You 
woke me up for that?!" lecture.

After work, layed down underneath and checked the valves.  I had set them at 
.006/.008 when I assembled the top end.  #2 and 4 exhausts had loosened up to 
about .011, #3 intake had tightened up to .005.  Pizza cake to adjust, the 
maintenence guys came over to give me shit about working under the bus but 
understood what I was doing once I told them what was up.  Reset the points 
gap because the rubbing block had worn a bit, points were .013, reset to .016 
and dwell was again 51.  Tightened the throttle cable back out to spec.

Driving back up the hill towards the Karmarosa, I was accelerating up hills 
that the Burrito Express maintains speed, though the Tinkertoy is lighter and 
has RBGs.  Power kept getting better though not as noticeable gains like this 
morning.  Called Crazy Auntie Sherry to see if she'd stop by the spray and 
wash place and inspire me to wash better, she said she'd meet me there.  I 
was hoping she'd drive the Tinkertoy from there to home because this is the 
bus she drives exclusively and would have a valid impression of the 
difference between the engines.  I get diluted by the Burrito Express, a 
heavier bay Doormobile 1600 DPDH.  Washed off a bunch of accumulated barn 
dust and bird poop, the Tinkertoy had been living in the barn since her 
engine had been donated to Gus Bus 5 months ago at 25k engine miles.

Crazy Auntie Sherry didn't show by the time I was done and I thought I saw 
the Antichrist go by while I was rinsing the engine room, guess she forgot.  
Bummer, gotta drive the splitty the rest of the way home (hehehe).  Back the 
way we came, over the hill in 4th gear, the Burrito Express and the 
Antichrist both want 1 lower on that same hill.  Turns out Auntie Sherry 
worked later than she was scheduled for and I got home before she did

Oil pressure above idle stayed at 45, must be what the spring is set for.  
Pull in the driveway, shut her down, jump out and grab the dipstick again, 
warm not hot.

Hmmm.  How many people grab their dipsticks as much as I did today?  I feel 
good about it too!

In all a great first drive, the SPDH concept works, just gotta figure the 
thermostat rod situation out sometime.  The Dual Port doghouse thermostat rod 
runs differently through the heads than the Single Port heads, does anyone 
have that answer?  I know there's others out there with that same question.

Been a long day so right now English feels like a second language, hope most 
of this made sense.

See y'all at Everybus, hey Greg Potts didja talk to your buddy about the 
Maple Syrup?

Mad Uncle Dave
