To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Sun, 30 Mar 2003 18:42:37 -0800
From: Stephen Diercouff <sgd(-at-)tfm.com>
Subject: Eberspaecher BN4 questions

I spent this afternoon fitting the heater to the engine compartment of
my '74 Westy.  There's a few minor loose ends I have questions/issues with.

1. How is the temperature control cable routed past the z-bed, assuming it
goes through there. It attaches to the top of the duct work in the fuel
tank compartment, and either needs to go straight down from there or through
to the z-bed, and then down somewhere. I'm sure I can figure out a way to
do it, I'm just wondering how it was done by the factory/dealers.

2. What does the stock heat outlet look like? My duct work ends in a
round tube in the middle of the z-bed compartment. I'll need to fab something
to bring it out the front. I'd like it to look original, or close to that.

3.  How does recirculation work in a westy? My heater came out of a '74
Westy, or so I was told, but the return air duct would end up in the bottom
of the vertical closet if I hook it up. Is that really how it was done in
a Westy, or was there different ductwork (or do people always use outside
air)?


4. Where do the timer knob and temperature control knob go on the dash?
I can find places to mount them but, again, I want it to look stock.

5. I am missing a couple parts, the metal duct piece that attaches to the
end of the return air duct and to the side of the bus, and the exhaust
pipe clamp. Anyone have either of these or know where to get them?
I can provide drawings to help identify them if somoene doesn't understand
what I'm talking about. Oh, also, if someone has that heat outlet I'd love 
to get my hands on one. I'm not holding my breath on that though.

Thanks.

--Stephen

--
Stephen Diercouff, tfm associates, Eugene Oregon          voice: +1 541 461 8928
Internet:  sgd(-at-)tfm.com                                      fax: +1 541 461 8929
Snail   :  P.O. Box 2086/Eugene OR 97402-0031 USA

They that can give up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary
safety deserve neither liberty nor safety.  -- Benjamin Franklin
