Date: Sun, 15 Jul 2012 19:15:35 -0400
From: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)roadtrip.net>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Remembering Steve Dolan

I've been fighting to find the words for a suitable tribute to one H. 
Steven Dolan, aka Dworkin, and I keep getting caught between 
ruminations, stories, and descriptions.

He was someone who is hard to describe, yet he was a person who changed 
all of our lives, and did it in the most unassuming and humble way. 
That's not to say he couldn't occasionally get ornery - just listening 
to him discuss certain shop owners he had done business with in the 
Northern Virginia area could let you know that - but he was never mean 
about it, or low: just occasionally firm, and mainly only when someone 
else was being an idiot.

But one of the things that stood out the most about Steve was his good 
humor, patience, and general bemusement with the universe. When calling, 
you the voice on the other end of the line would respond "Greetings 
Earthling!" and from that moment on, the conversation would be off to 
the races, full of discussions of latest projects, the rationale behind 
a certain part or style of repair, commentary on the current political 
regime, or maybe even the topic you called to discuss (if there was one, 
that is). He was a joy to be around and would set aside anything he had 
going on just to help a friend on a project.

I'm not sure there's much I can say beyond that that makes any 
difference, but I also know I can't leave it at just that, so I'm just 
going to put down some vignettes that make me remember Steve, what a 
great person he was, and some of the things I saw him do or heard him 
tell me about over the years, if only so that they're on "paper" for me 
to remember.

I can't remember when I first became aware of Steven, but my email 
archives point to him responding to a message I sent in 2001 regarding 
overheating and vacuum leaks. He was a breath of fresh air to a 
discussion I was having on vacuum leaks and overheating, all on the 
type-2 mailing list. A few months later I emailed him about stopping by 
his place to say hi whilst I was on a tour of the Eastern seaboard, and 
the answer I received from someone I had only talked to online prior to 
that was a message with his address and the warning that he smoked like 
chimney, but that's how he was. Hard to imagine that as over 10 years ago.

Here are my memories from the time I knew him.in random order.

Thanks,
Tom

Memories...

* Learning the rules of keeping kosher during our talks and discussions.

* Hearing stories of John Anderson and engine building.

* The joy that Steve took in explaining the right way of doing 
something, or showing the right way of doing something - removing or 
installing window rubber being the first thing that immediately comes to 
mind.

* The completely full bookshelves, the few wonderful books on the Civil 
War he loaned me at one point, and the huge map of the geologic history 
of - I believe - I-80 (or was it the Appalachians) that hung on the wall 
in his living room.

* His shiny bald head and often quite unmanageable beard (which I 
believe he would shave down at a particular time of year).

* Hearing him call for his cats and listening to the banter he carried 
on with them.

* Driving down to Everybus with him.

* The saga of combining the drivetrain from an old bus he had - a 78 I 
believe - that was rusting away with a '73 that had a solid body.

* The love of Fuel Injection (FI) over carbs. He couldn't say enough 
about how he liked FI, except maybe when he was working on the FI. )

* The concept of rubbing olive oil into your hands in oder to keep the 
grease from penetrating as you started to get creasy.

* How he and his friends in high school would pick up VW beetles with 
toasted engines, then purchase "top end rebuild kits" for type-1 
engines, containing new heads, gaskets, etc. (available at the time from 
Pep Boys, IIRC, for something like $100), do a top end rebuild, then 
resell them.

* The occasional visit he would make to random parties I would have in 
Baltimore.

* Being invited to sit in the Sukkot he would build in his backyard 
(http://www.jewfaq.org/holiday5.htm)

* The endless tales of architects and plans to build a house on the 
property he had a garage on.

* His patience and aplomb, even if I had woken him up with a phone call, 
with him responding nicely, "Could you just call me back in 20 minutes?"

* How he would do anything for anybody.

* When a financial problem arose with the type2.com domain due to us 
accidentally exceeding the monthly bandwidth allocation by quite a lot, 
Steve just "took care of it" so as to keep things running seamlessly and 
without any drama.

* The list or various domains being hosted out of Steve's house on his 
Mac or a linux box at various points.

* The stained glass window Vanagon.

* His fascination and refurbishing of gasoline heaters for buses.

-- 
"We are MoTown.  We are professionals.  We're here to get the job done."
