From: "Bill Bowman" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
To: "List - Vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Bowman, Bill" <bill(-at-)bnnta.com>
Date: Mon, 6 Aug 2012 11:38:08 -0500
Subject: upcoming 27th "Buses Nowhere Near The Arch" camping weekend...

Hi all,

It's just under a month away!  We hope to see many of you again soon at the
Lake!  Mark your calendar, get that VW ready and pack up the "family unit",
chow and beverages and those water toys for a long holiday weekend of fun!
Some basic info is below...

Bill

"Buses Nowhere Near The Arch #27 (B.N.N.T.A.)

when:  Friday August 31st thru Sept September 3rd, 2012

where:   the entire "group" campground at the Indian Creek Recreational Area
located right on huge Mark Twain Lake, which is about 30 miles west of
Hannibal, Missouri.

Any and all VW's and the folks that love them are welcome to enjoy this BNNTA
family-oriented camping event. Featuring VW camping on a 22 mile long lake, an
informal VW Bus show, a fun and highly competitive best individual and best
group campsite decoration contest, a scenic countryside caravan on Saturday
over to discover the sights of historic Hannibal, MO (the childhood hometown
right on the Mississippi River of Samuel Clemens, a.k.a. "Mark Twain"), Bus
show awards and door prizes, campfire activities, slow drags, etc.  Our
campground is lakeside, so bring your watertoys (canoes, kayaks, etc.).  BNNTA
is held in a beautiful Corp of Engineers built/managed campground with very
nice facilities, clean bathrooms and nice shower facilities, a playground and
a huge pavilion for our sole use.  We will again restrict access to the
campground to only VWs, so you won't wake up in the morning staring at the
side of a motorhome, just the beautiful sight of VWs of all types sprawling
off into the distance!

The "total" event/camping fee for each VW for the entire four day weekend is
only $30.  Yep!  A total of only $30!  Oh! And if you have something VW
related that you want to donate to the door prize stash, please bring it along
so that we can give it away in the door prize drawing on Saturday evening.
Official event t-shirts will be available for sale (first-come, first served),
as well as the those cool event stickers and dash plaques included with event
registration.  Thanks again to fellow Bus nut Tom Janiszewski for his
continued awesome graphic designs for our event!!!

You can check out our simple web site for more details and info:
http://www.bnnta.com  There are several links there including a mapping link
to show you where we'll be and how to cruise on in for the fun.

Thanks again for your time, and we hope that you and your VW can join all of
us for the long holiday weekend!


Your hosts,

Bill & Kathryn Bowman

p.s. Could someone cross post this listing over to the Type2-digest for me, I
receive posts from there, but for some reason I get error messages when trying
to post over there.  Also, could someone post this over to the Vanagon List
which I'm not currently on.  Hell, post this listiing anywhere that you think
Volkswagen camping enthusiasts might want to read about it!!!  Much
appreciated!!!  Thanks!
