From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: "'type 2'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>, <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 24 Aug 2012 08:06:28 -0400
Subject: Treasure chest hinges - R&R

Hey guys,

 

The hinges on my treasure chest door are beyond shot. Or one of them is
anyway. I didn't realize it, and I thought the door was creaky when opening
because of the stay on the side. Anyway yesterday when I tried to shut it,
it would not shut, and upon further inspection I realized that the hinge was
binding so much, that when I tried to shut the door, it was almost pulling
the hinge out of the frame. 

 

I did a bit of investigation, and it looks like the PO had drilled holes
inside the frame, and put nuts on from inside to attach the hinge. I was
able to remove one hinge, but the other one-the screws just freely spin.
Looks like I'll need to drill these two out. 

 

I think there is supposed to be a plate floating in there, that has two
tapped holes in it. I was going to  enlarge the hole the PO made, and
install a plate that has been tapped and threaded appropriately. I also plan
on trying to clean all the rust out of that section at the same time. 

 

My questions to the list-investigating replacement hinges, I know one guy
who rebuilds them, and I've gotten a pair for my '65 bus. But now I see that
ISP west sells new ones. The repros are cheaper than the rebuilt ones. Does
anyone know the quality of the new ones? I'd rather support a VW guy that is
putting his talents to use rebuilding the hinges, at the same time if I can
get new ones.should I just go that route? 

 

Also is it supposed to be a floating steel plate inside the frame, that the
hinge screws into? If so how thick a chunk of steel should I be using. Has
anyone figured a way to get the treasure chest doors to swing open further
than the amount allotted by the stay? It is kind of a pin getting into the
chest-with those doors that don't open all the way. 

 

I was thinking that I should replace all 6 at once, so I don't get stuck
like I am now-without a door on one side. Ie if one has broken the other are
probably not far behind. 

 

Thanks for any tips or advice on getting these working again.

 

-Kevin Guarnotta

Jamaica Plain, MA

 

'69 Singlecab

'65 Ez-camper
