From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 9 Apr 2002 11:28:53 EDT
To: jb_bak(-at-)hotmail.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] tranny feeling a little loose

In a message dated 4/8/02 7:25:50 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
jb_bak(-at-)hotmail.com writes:

<< My transaxle isn't in the best shape i know. When i changed my gear oil a 
 broken washer fell out! My bus is a 67 deluxe with the orginal sing-axle 
 tranny. My question is, i want to take the bus on a trip to floridy some 
 time during june. I live in arkansas. it's going to be a long drive. what do 
 I need to do to make my tranny reliable enough to get me down to the beach?
 thanks >>

you did the best thing by changing the gear oil- I assume you did the RGBoxes 
at the same time as the center section.  Did you make sure your axle boots 
are good?  Keeping clean gear ol in there is the best thing to do.

If your shifting is sloppy often a lot of that has to do with worn shift 
bushings.  the bushings are pretty cheap, and you can replace the front and 
middle ones with he tranny in place.    Also check rear shift coupler (just 
in front of tranny)  

How does the tranny work?   smooth?   crunchy?  pop out of gear?  whine?  
howl?   They do give you a ton of warning before they die.   

you can jack up the back and wiggle the rear wheels with rear brake off.   up 
down play (or side to side) means the RGBearing are wearing.  if the wheel 
itself does not wiggle, but when you rotate the wheel there is a thunk (do 
this part in gear) before the gears really move, your fulcrum plate/axle 
shaft spade/crown gear area has play.

generally you can decide how much wear/play you can deal with (if there is 
some, usually there is a tad) and choose when to fix it.   I had bought a 59 
truck with bad motor, and when I change dthe gear oil a big chunk of fulcrum 
plate fell out,  but the truck drove fine, excpet the thunk noise when a 
stepped on the gas or let of the gas unless I was real gentle.   no, trucks 
tranny mounts were fine-

oh yeah, check you tranny mounts.  if the front one is broken, replace it 
before your trip.  you would feel wierd stuff in the rear and see the shift 
stick jump after you go into gear and step on the gas if thats bad- pull back 
on the fan shroud, if the engine tilts, mount is broken.

