Date: Wed, 17 Nov 2004 12:30:21 -0500
From: Bill Moon <moon(-at-)crosslink.net>
To: nurofiz(-at-)knology.net, VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Upgrading brake warning light - has anyone done this?

Chris wrote:
 >
 > It looks like it could be done.  The brake warning light has gone
 > south, and I could get another one from a late bay and wire it in per
 > Bentley, but I wanted to know if there were any pointers or horror
 > stories out there.
 >
 > Chris Slaymaker
 > 1971 Westfalia  "Lurch"

Hi Chris,

I just finished this upgrade on my '71 and here are some things I found.

    1. Since you have a '71 I am assuming that you want to replace the 
pushbutton lamp test type with the later type. The '71 has 3 connections 
on the warning light assembly and the later types have four. You will 
need to bring  the  fourth line in for the lamp test function. I picked 
this line up off of pin 61 of the voltage regulator and ran the line up 
to the dash. I  placed a 2-female-to-1-male  1/4" spade adapter (NAPA 
part# 784473) onto pin 61 and plugged the original line and the new line 
onto that. Of course, pin 61 is the hardest pin to reach on the 
regulator so this takes some patience. You will probably want to remove 
the regulator so you can get your hands in there. When you have the 
regulator back in, verify that there is some space between the new 
connections and the firewall as it is a pretty tight fit. On mine there 
was about 1/4" clearance and I think that is ok. If you are not 
comfortable with it you can wrap the new connection with electrical tape.

    2. When you get this line run up to the dash you will need a small 
(7/64" ?)female spade connector to crimp onto the end of the wire under 
the dash. My local NAPA didn't have these but I found some at a VW 
aftermarket FLAPS. If you can't find any I can send you some.

    3. The wires are connected to the new warning light as follows:
       (1) black to "15"          (+12V from ignition switch)
       (2) red to "K"             (fault signal from hydraulic switches)
       (3) brown to "31"          (ground)
       (4) your new wire to "61"  (lamp test)

    4. You might want to go under the car and at least visually verify 
that the connections are correct on the hydraulic switches. Each switch 
has 3 connections. I don't know if all the 71's are the same but instead 
of using a 3 pin spade plug, mine uses a 2 pin spade plug and a single 
wire that plugs on separately. These can be plugged on incorrectly!!! 
I've had mine for almost 20 years and one switch was hooked up wrong by 
a p.o. all this time (My warning light was always missing anyway). The 
connections should be as follows:
       (1) black to "82a"          (+12V from ignition switch)
       (2) red to "81a"            (fault signal)
       (3) striped to "81"         (to brake lights)

    5. Testing. Of course you should see the warning light come on when 
you turn the ignition switch and go out when the engine starts (just 
like the generator warning light). You can also test the operation of 
the system by simulating a fault as follows. Make a test lead by 
crimping a 1/4" male spade connector to each end of a piece of hookup 
wire. Get under the car and pull the plug off of one of the hydraulic 
switches. Use your test lead and connect the striped wire to the red 
wire (both in the plug). You can leave the black wire plugged into the 
switch. Make sure nothing is shorting to anything and go back into the 
car, start the engine, and when you press the brake pedal the warning 
light should come on. You should also have brake lights when you press 
the pedal. Go back underneath, remove the test lead, reconnect the plug 
to the switch, and repeat for the other switch. When you are all done be 
sure the plugs are plugged on to the switches correctly as per 4 above. 
This tests everything in the brake warning system.

Of course, you will want to disconnect the battery while making the 
above changes.

Hope this helps,
Bill Moon
'71 VW Type 2
'72 Saab 96
