Date: Wed, 17 Nov 2004 15:02:10 -0500
From: scott lyons <slyons(-at-)germansupply.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Mallory

On 11/17/04 2:36 PM, "Richard Atwell" <ratwell(-at-)mac.com> wrote:
 
> This is important to mention when folks says it fits because there are several
> mallory body styles as proven by the fact they don't use a universal cap for
> all models.

The body is the same size on all the new Mallory VW distributors, afaik. It
is only the advance mechanism and points/unilite plates that differ.

> The Mallory while flexible to config, can the configuration even come close to
> the stock curve? Has anyone who has done the install tried to prove it?

Honestly Richard, I believe you are over thinking this. If I were building a
car for the race track I might examine tuning to this degree, but for my bus
I am happy to get it running well, close to original specs, consistently and
reliably. I have about 20k miles with zero maintenance or adjustment to the
ignition system to say that this product works well. Does the advance come
in too soon? I don't honestly know and I don't think it matters very much to
the drivability of the bus. I have made enough other modifications to the
engine (camshaft, CR, ignition system) that any attempt to duplicate exactly
the factory advance curves would probably be a waste of effort. Could I make
the engine perform a bit better with more tuning of the distributor advance
curve? Perhaps, but this sort of tuning can often be a battle of diminishing
returns.

I am not sure if you are trying to prove that this product works well, or
disprove it. We don't sell Mallory distributors, so I have nothing to gain
from saying they work great, but they do. The only distributor that might be
better is an NOS Bosch original. And like I said, the only way to test the
distributor effectively is either on test bed or dyno situation, and neither
one is available to most people, myself included. So I just drive it, watch
the gauges a little and not worry.


Scott Lyons
germansupply.com
Canada's Online VW Parts Specialist

http://www.germansupply.com
