From: "Eric Allred, Aircooled.Net" <eric(-at-)aircooled.net>
To: "Ed Richardson" <edr(-at-)earthlink.net>
Cc: "vintagebus vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 14:20:56 -0600
Subject: Re: [VB] rubber undercoat in doors?

----- Original Message -----

> Hi Eric,
> I'm wondering, did you do anything to your floors, especially over the
> engine bay to insulate?  Seems like a lot of noise would come from this
> area?
>

For the time being, I just lay a couple of blankets down over the engine
area, which helps a little. I recently snagged a big ol' chunk of carpet
padding and layed it back there, which did quite a bit for quieting it down,
but haven't trimmed it all nice yet to fit perfect. For the rest of the
floor area, the stock rubber mats remain in place, as rubber is a great
insulator.

In the dead of winter, the sheetmetal between my calves and the front beam
gets very cold, and can actually feel the cold radiate from the metal to my
leg if it is within 6 inches of it. I haven't really found a good looking
way to insulate this area yet. I like the clean painted metal look, so am
not looking to insulate it from the inside, but if I insulate it from the
outside (underneath), I need something that will deal with harsh climates.

Aside from using insulating material to quiet the bus down, I also fabbed up
a hideaway muffler for my bus that routes the exhuast through two mufflers
in series, a muffler next to each heaterbox (connected by a pipe that runs
close underneath the flywheel area). Looks really clean and nice, but have
to pull it off to adjust the valves, haha). When my engine is running, You
cannot hear the exhaust (putting your foot over the exhaust pipe makes no
noticable change in engine sound). It's kinda neat, I can hear the fan in
the doghouse whirring since the exhaust doesn't drown it out. LOL. I
switched from a 34pict-3 carb w/stock oilbath, to dual Kads a little while
ago, and now you can hear the carbs sucking air when you get on it, or are
fighting a headwind, going uphill, etc.... When I get some spare time, i'll
make an intake baffle for the carbs to quiet them back down as well.

The bus is daily driven, year round, so making sure the heat can stay in the
bus is VERY important when you have to drive to work when it's 20 degrees
outside.  :-)

One thing the PO did to my bus, was try to insulate the front end of the bus
with stiff foam sheets. I ended up ripping all of it out because the
high-pitch squeaking was driving me nuts! There's still a chunk of it
somewhere in a crevis that I can't reach, and every once in a while, it lets
me know it's there. I think it's mocking me. >:-l

Eric Allred
64 Bus
