Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 17:25:41 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: buying 65' Splitty barndoor info requested

>From: Tracy Bonin <icculus22420(-at-)yahoo.com>
>Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 07:47:09 -0700 (PDT)
>
>Hi everyone, I found a 65' Splitty Barndoor that I'm gonna be purchasing,
>and I was just wondering if anyone had any useful information on these
>years.

As has been mentioned, get a Bentley manual.  It's probably the best easily
available source of original factory repair information.  The only problem
with it is that it's a B&W reprint and some of the pages were originally in
color.  The wiring diagrams, in particular, are hard to read, but the
original color versions are scanned in at http://www.vintagebus.com/wiring/ .

There is a scanned parts manual online that covers Buses through '67 at
http://wow.atlasta.net/~mriluvu/oacdp/ .  Another possibly interesting
manual there is the "Local Manufacture of Workshop Tools", which shows
you how to make some of the special tools that the Bentley manual mentions.

There are some resources associated with this mailing list.  The Library at
http://www.type2.com/library has lots of articles written by fellow mailing
list members.  The Archive at http://www.type2.com/archive/ has the past
postings of the Vintagebus and Type2 mailing lists.

You might also try to get catalogs from as many parts vendors as you can.
These can let you know what's available new or reproduction, and give you a
rough guide to prices.  Some of the "usual suspects" for Buses are Bus
Depot, Bus Boys, and Wolfgang.  Other vendors, not as Bus-specific, include
Gene Berg, BFY Obsolete, and Rocky Mountain Motorworks.  Some vendors, like
Old Volks of Arizona (owned by Ronnie, a member of this mailing list) have
Web sites but no paper catalogs - bookmark their sites too.  Buy a copy of
Hot VWs or VW Trends and look at the ads in there for more potential
vendors.

Find out where your closest VW air-cooled shop is.  If you're on the East
Coast there may not be a local one; in the Midwest and South there's
probably one or two in the metro areas with >1 million people; in
California there are shops on every corner where you can buy NOS parts
for a '51 Bus.

When you first get the '65, there are a few things you Must Do Right Away,
like before you get it out of the seller's driveway:

- Get a strong flashlight and inspect all the rubber fuel lines, both in
  the engine compartment and under the Bus, with an eagle eye.  If any are
  leaking, replace them before moving the Bus.

- Also inspect all the rubber brake lines (one at each wheel) and the
  wheels for evidence of leaking brake fluid.  Try the brake pedal; it
  should stop before it hits the floor and not require pumping to get
  pressure.  If the brakes don't work well and you can't fix them there,
  $50-$100 spent on a tow truck might keep you from wrecking your Bus
  five minutes after you buy it.  If the brakes are working mechanically,
  make sure the brake -lights- work.

- Take off the rear hub caps and make sure the big nut on the end of the
  axle has a cotter pin holding it on.  If the pin is missing, tighten
  the nut as far as you can with available tools (factory spec is 215
  lb-ft) and put a cotter pin in it.

- Inspect the two main frame rails and the frame in general for cracks,
  especially where the front axle and engine/transmission bolt on.  Check
  the steering parts (tie rods, tie rod ends) to make sure they're all
  there and reasonably tight.  If any big problems show up here, again,
  spring for a tow truck.

There are many more "new Bus" maintenance things you'll need to do, but the
above three are the common "biggies" that will kill your new Bus before you
even get it home.

Something to keep in mind is that this Bus has had 20 more years for rust
and "creative" previous owners to work on it.  You'll probably find a lot
more rusted fasteners and stuck-in-place parts than you did on your '85.
You'll also find some modifications that make you wonder what the hell
somebody was thinking.  If you're in doubt, remember that this Bus ran just
fine when it came off the line in Hanover, so if you put it back the way it
was originally, it should run that way again.

I hope this helps.  Welcome to the list!

Matt Roberds
