Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 20:58:41 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: advise needed 

>From: Stan Wilder <wilden1(-at-)juno.com>
>Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 18:51:24 -0500
>
>>With this battery, you can convert the left side of your bus to 12 V,
>>so the headlight on your side is brighter, but the right side is all
>>mint NOS NIB OG VW.
>
>Please send the wiring diagrams on to me.
>This is something I'm going to do.

You need a 12 V battery - the bigger, the better.  Also some speaker wire
with clear insulation - 24 gauge is OK, 30 gauge is better - and some
alligator clips.  Put the battery back there in the engine compartment.
Cut a piece of speaker wire long enough to reach from the battery to the
center of the engine.  Strip about 3" off both wires on one end and wind
it around the negative terminal of the battery real good.  Use a little
duct tape to hold it on.  Now strip about 1" off the other end and wind
it around the fuel line for a ground - more duct tape here too.

Now, cut a piece of speaker wire about 2' long.  Strip one end 3" and wind
it around the positive terminal, but don't tape it yet.  Put an alligator
clip on the other end of this wire.  Pull off the running light wire from
the left tail light and clip the alligator clip onto the prong on the
socket.  The tail light should come on real bright.  Don't forget to unhook
this alligator clip when you're not driving the Bus.

Finally you need a real long piece of speaker wire to go from the battery
up to the front of the Bus.  First strip one end 3" and wind it around the
positive terminal, with the other wire from the tail light.  Now you can
go ahead and duct tape the positive terminal.  Run the wire up to the front
of the Bus -- zip tie it to the fuel line right in front of the engine,
then zip tie it to the heater tube.  When you need to make a hole in the
metal, use a railroad spike and a 10 pound sledge.

Take the left headlight out and cut about a 2" diameter hole in the back
of the bucket.  Cut all 3 wires but leave a couple inches of wire on the
headlight connector.  Splice the brown one coming from the body to the
white one coming from the connector -- wire nuts work good for this.
Strip the end of the yellow wire about 1/2".  Cut the brown wire totally
off the headlight connector.  (What you are doing is wiring it so that
BOTH filaments in the headlight work at once!)  Install a 12 V headlight.
When you put the headlight back in the bucket, make sure the yellow wire
sticks through the big hole you cut.  Put another alligator clip on the
wire coming from the back and clip it to the yellow wire.

Congratulations, you now have 12 V on the left side of your Bus!  Don't
forget to undo the alligator clips when you park your Bus.  Also, every
once in a while, take out the regular 6 V battery and put the 12 V battery
in its place (on the right side) and take a little drive so the 12 V
battery gets charged back up.

Matt Roberds

PS Don't actually do any of this.
