Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 22:19:20 -0400
From: Don J <djohnson1(-at-)snet.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [VB] wives - don't tell 'em til it's too late (risky)

I think I'm partially responsible for starting this thread, so I'll 
chime in here on a work in progress.  A week ago, I put my two buses up 
for sale.  I'd been planning on doing it for about a month, but was 
trying to avoid it at all costs (except my marriage)  I was beginning 
to alienate the SO, by bus stuff and parts just accumalating 
everywhere, and things came to a verbally ugly head during a 
"discussion" about it. I agreed I would sell them.  But then, the next 
day, I found another I just had to have.  I secretly bought it and 
tried to hide it behind my brother's house until the other two sold, 
and then it would just magically appear.  She found out, because I was 
late for a showing of the house we're maybe going to buy.  We've been 
looking for two years for another house in a better location.  This was 
a farmhouse on 3 acres with two adjacent farms, and tons of space to 
hide all kinds of stuff.  My absolute dream of a house. (we live on 1/4 
acre on a state road with five cars right now, all well hidden though)  
I'm so close to my neighbors that last summer when I was spray painting 
a battery tray, IN THE GARAGE, at 1:30 a.m., that my neighbor Lenny 
came out in his robe to let me know that the fan in his bedroom window 
which he points in, was blowing in fumes which filled his entire 
upstairs.  Funny, but not funny.

Anyway, we are currently in the silent treatment mode, but I found out 
that even though she likes the house, she's afraid to buy it because 
she envisions 17 rusted hulks in the backyard, because she can't trust 
me anymore when it comes to the buses.  She's absolutely right, 
something just friggin comes over me. As of this minute, I'm scared to 
go to my brother's house, she's mad at him for encouraging my devious 
behavior, we are now a little short on a down payment because I spent 
it secretly on the bus, the dog just mopes around the house, I've been 
borrowing $2 a day from colleages for lunch because I had to bribe the 
flatbed driver to tow the unregistered bus with all the spare money I 
had on me last week, and I leave for a week-long solo trip in three 
days.  I'll let you all know if the locks are changed when I get home.  
I just hope I don't spot any sad buses sinking into the spring mud 
behind some barn...

-Don
