From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 1 May 2003 23:31:17 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] buying 65' Splitty barndoor info requested

In a message dated 5/1/2003 7:52:04 AM Pacific Daylight Time,
icculus22420(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

> I've owned my bus for awhile now though, and I suspect that my knowledge on
> the bus I have now will come in handy anyhoo. A VW is always a VW. But
> anyways lemme know............

Hi Tracey,
Since your bus is new to you.  Center punch right around the brass tubing
going into/out of the fuel pump and into carb to help tighten the casting
around these pressed in brass tubes tight and keep them from falling out
spewing fuel all over the engine.

  Replace ALL flexable fuel line from the gas tank to the engine with new
stuff and the German cloth covered fuel line is the best stuff.  Replace this
every three years or before three years if the ends show cracking to prevent
BBQing your bus.  If you wait till the rubber shows any leakage you will more
than likely have a flamed bus before you catch it in time!

  Check for a stiff rubber grommet around the metal fuel line as it passes
through the front engine tin.  No grommet results in the metal line being cut
through by the engine tin!  BTDT!!  A section of flexable fuel line slit down
one side and hosed clamped onto the metal line where it passes through the
tin, works well as a grommet replacement.  Soft rubber grommets you can get
from hardware stores last about two weeks!

  Also replace your flexable brake lines to prevent them from turning into
one way valves and possibly dragging the brakes in one wheel till it catches
fire!  Those line are actually two and the inner hose when it brakes turns
into a one way valve.  There after replace the flexable brake lines about
every five to eight years or if there is any sign of cracking on the outside
of the lines.

After that replace gear oil in the tranny and reduction gear boxes.  Tune up
and change the oil in the engine.  Go through/inspect the entire brake
system, steering, and suspension.  Lastly clean up, tighten and solder all
loose connections in the electrical system.  Check both the archives and
library for more info on the subjects listed above and ask questions on this
list!!!!
Happy VWing,
Eric&Barb
