From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 00:08:06 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] I need to idle

In a message dated 5/1/2003 6:50:19 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
coerver(-at-)mindspring.com writes:

> 1) It will run fine when started up cold,   So i thought the choke might be 
> sticky, disabled it   no - choke seems ok

Hi Rob,
Probably needs a good cleaning and even another soon to get the crud out of 
it.  We also have used phosperic acid (Think it is same active chemical as in 
CLR.) to remove corrosion out of all those tiny passages through the carb.  
Only leave it to work for just a few minutes or it can eat up the metal the 
carb is cast out of!

> 2) I checked the timing for the first time since I got  it   ( yes I know, 
> I'm bad but it was -30 degrees with constant snow and rain for the last six 
> months so I haven't driven it but 200 miles. )  the timing seems a bit 
> advanced when it will idle ~15 degrees

Without knowing your exact idling RPM that timing reading is worthless.
First make sure to find out that the marks on your lower pulley are TDC, 7 
BTDC, 10 BTDC, 5 ATDC or which/what ever or not!!!!  Clean and gap the 
points, then you can check and reset the timing for 7BTDC with a static light 
for your 009 distributor.  Timing always depends on which distributor, and 
how the particular carb affects the advance on vaccum advanced distributors.  
Then you can check the advance of the distributor with an adjustable timing 
light and tach for 28-30 total advance, with at least 20BTDC achieved by 
2,500 RPM.

> 4) I would love to do a full tune up but I am afraid, the PO didn't know 
> what kind of motor it was -> the case says AS002..etc &made in brasil which 
> from what I can tell is a 74 bug motor, so I don't know what to set the 
> valves &timing to, oh and its a single port..

For valves set them for .006" once you have the lower pulley marks figured 
out and add a 180 mark for the other half of the valve adjustments!  Engine 
case #s have nothing to do with timing settings.

> 6) sigh... one more thing... I replaced the clean fuel filter by the carb 
> today and it collected alot of rust colored material fast

Run some alcohol additive through the tank to remove water that has more than 
likely settled into it and the carb.  You might want to add another filter 
before the fuel pump and install a reserve switch so you can shut off the 
fuel flow for when changing out this new filter and flexable fuel lines 
without bathing yourself in fuel.

> 7) sigh.. sigh..sigh.. after a trip to the store it stalled out on me and 
> wouldn't start again.  Eventually, it started, and I don't really know why.

Probably needs everything just cleaned out and adjust correctly.  If that 
does not do it the first time, rinse and repeat till you get it right!
Eric&Barb
