Date: Fri, 2 May 2003 02:02:16 -0700
From: "LilBlauWagen" <wades_wagens(-at-)qwest.net>
To: "Vintage Bus Post" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Dealer Microfische machine score!!

I went over and bought the microfische machine i mentioned to the list a while back (found in a public storage locker auction).
Turned out to be an original VW machine with logo made by Agfa, has dust jacket and original repair/cleaning literature in 4 or 5
different languages! Also came with a little wooden brush i pressume for cleaning off the slides, anyone know if the machine came
with that originally? At first glance it didnt look like he had much of the fische, and all the ones i looked at said 1974, 1975 or
1976 in big numbers on them. Since i had never seen original fische before, I was dissapointed thinking it was all late model stuff.
I bought it anyway cause im a freak like that and when i got it home to look at it, i saw that those numbers meant it was
*updated/revised* as of those years, but covered earlier years, and that each individual fische had an entire parts catalogue on it
(some were 2 pages)! So heres the fische it came with:

Everything below was updated as of the mid 70s

Industrial motor: breakdown of any and all parts etc.
Paint codes, colors, finishes etc
Beetle: splitwindow up to the end of production. has 3 different complete sets of fische - 2 pages each. each one revised in a
different year; 74 75 and 76.
Super beetle: 74 and later
Bus: barndoor up to 67.
Bus: Bay window 68 and later
Ghia - all years
type3 - all years
type4 - all years
Thing  - all years
Porsche 911
Porsche 944
Porsche 924
It also has the following models, but i havent looked at what years: Fox,
Dasher, rabbit, and about
20 different AUDI models - never heard of most of em.

Am i missing any?

All fische is clear like someone stated to the list, very large, and uses black text. Each fische is in some kind of fragile tissue
paper like folder thing.
I am willing to try to scan most of this and add it to the out of print online documentation thing. We'll see how that goes.  I
guess the barndoor thru 67 one is already there so i dont have to do that one. Well actually when is the one online updated thru?
Mine was
revised in 74.

Heres some pics of it
http://dropgates.com/gallery/search.php?searchstring=microfische

-Wade
http://www.dropgates.com
http://www.type2.com/airs
