Date: Fri, 13 Sep 2002 10:20:50 -0400
From: Greg Potts <greg-potts(-at-)rogers.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Pop top conversion

Hi Rich,

I'm thinking I would be the guy with the experience you seek.

The Late-bay (74-79) pop-top hinges from the rear. Swapping this roof 
onto an early bay is NOT a small project.

In the winter of 2000/2001 I installed a 74 roof into a 1979 transporter 
as the final phase of my "Westfakia" project. There were approximately 
100 hours of labour involved. The material cost was actually pretty low, 
excluding the Maaco paintjob I spent a lot more on beer than I did on 
the roof.  But I had some pretty thirsty helpers. Swapping the roof onto 
an early westy is the same as with a transporter, because the hole in 
your roof just isn't going to be big enough. You could do the project in 
1/2 to 1/3 the time if you have experience in welding and/or auto-body 
work. I didn't.

The roof of a late-bay westy is squared off with a plywood ceiling used 
for the base of the bed. In order to fit the double bed you have to cut 
the roof from the donor westy and weld (or rivet, or bolt, screw) the 
roofs together. There is one structural cross-member in the middle of 
the roof that has to be cut out and the donor-roofs crossmember must be 
bolted or welded in its place. After that the rest of the job is 
relatively easy.

One of the hardest parts of the job is to install the front luggage 
rack. Unless you have a template, it is virtually impossible to locate 
the mounting brackets under the roofrack before you drill the holes in 
the bus. Luckily, your mistakes wind up above the headliner where no-one 
can see them (oops, I guess my secret's out now!)

You will also need the headliner from the donor westy. And because of 
the plywood, the new roof weighs at least 100 lbs more than the early 
bay.

.....The other way to go is to build a plywood bed upstairs. Adam 
Narraway replaced the canvas "death trap" (his words, more or less) in 
his 68 westy with a plywood bed; but it's more of a super-single than a 
true double bed. Mike Benthin's website has photos of the plywood 
upstairs cot. (when it hasn't exceeded it's geocities bandwidth cap).

There are pictures of the westfakia process at the website in my .sig 
file

Happy trails,

Greg Potts
Toronto, Ontario, Canada

1973/74/79 Westfakia Conversion **Bob the Tomato**
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
http://www.geocities.com/busesofthecorn



On Friday, September 13, 2002, at 09:52 AM, Rich Racioppa wrote:

Hi all
I have a 71 camper (Lift from the rear) with a cot on top.  Is there any 
way to switch tops to put on a "Front Lift" so i can install a double 
bed on this?  does anyone have any experience with this?  Thanks in 
advance

