From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
Cc: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 13 Sep 2002 09:28:43 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Fuel warning

I have also heard that the fuel is in the process of being reformulated and
reblended right now. My industry knowledgeable friend heard from a
technician that this same thing happened before.. That it was rotting out
the insides of fuel metering systems, since it would settle out in the
pumps, and was also very corrosive to some metals. Result, frequent fuel
metering system failures.
This material can be seen very easily by pouring some of the fuel on
concrete.. It will appear as globules, looking as water would if mixed with
fuel. If the concrete is dry, the fuel with soak right in, and the globules
will stand up on the surface.
Alcohol may be OK in fuel.. If you can keep it emulsified and blended. But
it's no good if it settles out.
So, that's the deal then.
If you have any problems with your idle, consider your fuel. I would drain
some directly from the tank, raising the driver's side of the vehicle so
that it settles into the drain end of the tank, and test it by getting some
into a clear glass or plastic jug, then allowing it to settle for a bit. You
have to look very, very close for the line of demarkation, an almost ghostly
line that will move as you slowly tip the container. If you find this, then
switch fuels or fuel sources.. at least go for the lower octane grade, but a
change of brand might be better. If you really needed a higher octane, then
you might consider buying the lowest, unblended grade and adding some octane
booster yourself from the auto specialty shelves.
We are going to drain our two VW tanks now, and drain the fuel bowls in the
carburetors. We're switching brands for now, but we're going to watch all
brands in the near future as they try to reformulate to meet the new
standards.
We got hubby back home last night, but this morning the bus was sluggish. It
ran rough, intermittently, on the freeway last night, backfiring and
sputtering. We have an almost new Solex 34 Pict 3 carburetor. We are using a
Compufire electronic points with a Bosch .050 distributor. It has always run
great up till now. It ran better the last half of the trip last night, but
this morning it called in sick again. Hubby had to take the truck to work.
MTBE's ultimeately proved to be a boondoggle... Another bane of the
environment, but of course first promoted to protect air quality. MTBE's may
have done that, but at the cost of water quality and safety. It was
contaminating and causing the closure of ground water wells. It has such an
affinity for water that it contaminates it extremely easily and once it gets
into the ground water, you will never get it out.
I had heard that MTBEs, or some part of them, used to be considered a waste
product of the distilling/refining process and were burned off. Sure enough,
at the time that I heard that, I noticed that the local refinery had snuffed
their burner stack.. We had a huge stack not far from here that belched
flame into the sky 24/7. Whatever it was that they were burning off
previously, they had been doing something with for the past many years...
About the time since they have introduced MTBE.
A lot of these environmental campaigns are nothing but a sham, in my
opinion. They're paid for by lobbyists and others who want to influence
regulation in their favor. Even the ones that are paid for by environmental
groups.. You may be shocked to know it, but they can act as agents for third
party corporations, legally gladhanding professional lobbyists "in the
public interest". Right. So, they restrict harvesting of timber in this
country, where it is regulated, and that opens up the market for say,
Indonesian or South American timber, where slash and burn methods are used
to remove young growth.. to get the profitable timber out. Beware of wolves
in sheep's clothing folks!
MTBEs been causing problems in California for well over ten years now, and
finally they had to address the problem, but the industry lobbyists
forestalled that for a long time. Wondering what they will replace it with
is like waiting for the other shoe to drop.
Jan B




