Date: Thu, 24 Mar 2005 08:28:26 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Chris Chubb <cchubb(-at-)codegurus.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] what happens if you don't change your oil in 10,000

At 08:00 AM 3/24/2005, you wrote:
>Mike Soultanian wrote:
> > Ok, so I think I *might* have forgotten to change my oil in the past
> > 10,000 miles and I'm kicking myself for it.  Actually, I just can't
>
>I just recently changed the oil in a Toyota 6 cyl. 4Runner I inherited.
>It was around 5K since its last change.  Oil still looked near amber and
>not black with no changes in performance.
>
>My dad left a Toyota Corolla he had go for a VERY long time adding oil
>when it needed it until he blew the engine.

10 years ago I was living with a guy who had gone at least 20k miles on his 
Ford Bronco without changing the oil. The dealer had done the 300 mile oil 
change when he bought it and he had never changed the oil since. He checked 
it and topped it up, but never changed it. It was only about a year old, he 
put a lot of miles on it.

When I heard that, I told him that I would change it for him, as I was 
crashing at his place for the summer. I pulled out the drain plug and 
nothing came out! I had to stick a screwdriver in there to bust through a 
layer of sludge and let the oil start flowing out. I put in new oil and 
then did it all again the next weekend and by then the oil was already as 
black as ink. I changed it again at the end of the summer and it was much 
better by then. To this day I still wish I had cut open the oil filter to 
see how clogged it was.

A few years later my neighbor told me the tale of woe that his engine had 
blown up in his Civic as he was hauling along the highway. When the 
warrantee company went to inspect the car before paying for a new engine 
they discovered that there was NO oil in the engine. The nimrod had had a 
friend change the oil and the friend never put new oil in after taking the 
old oil out. He had actually poured 4 quarts of oil into the windshield 
wiper fluid bottle! What is even more amazing is that this was almost a 
week before his engine blew up, but it was mostly little trips around the 
neighborhood.

Moral of the story: Never change your oil and you will be fine. (Or, never 
try to prove a point using anecdotal evidence...)

Chris in VA 
