From: "John Kolak" <jkolak(-at-)byu.edu>
To: "Mike Soultanian" <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>, "Jason Thorpe"
Cc: "type2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 29 Oct 2004 19:53:34 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Need help with possible engine purchase

Thanks Mike. This is the kind of solution I was looking for. I can see from 
the screen shots that this is really the way to go if you want to really 
understand what is going on with your fuel system. It takes the mystery out 
of the "black box" mystique.

I noticed there are 3 megasquirt controllers on "evay" right now. One first 
generation model at $99, and two of the latest version 2.2 at $199 and $329. 
If there hasn't been too much change since the first version that it is 
still a viable solution, it might be worth it for me to pick this one up at 
$99 since the megasquirt website estimates $130 cost to build your own. It 
would be nice to get a kit, too, to avoid the trouble of locating 
components.

Actually, I stand corrected from my previous post. Checking your second link 
again, I found the entire kits are available through links on that site. 
Looks like about $245 for everything, not including the vehicle specific 
stuff (injectors, rails, manifold tubes, plenum, etc).

I wouldn't have any trouble building cables as long as it is clear what goes 
where. Without the guidance from the pages you sent me, I would have been 
lost in the area of what sensors to use.

What I can see is that this is going to be a long range goal, not the quick 
fix I was looking for to get my bus back on the road. I may not even buy the 
porsche engine that started this thread because if it's going to be a long 
path to getting the bus on the road, I've got two engines I could repair 
instead of buying a ready-to-go engine. One is the 78 that started the 
problem, and would still be a problem because of the pilot/tranny mismatch, 
the other is the other porsche engine that went bad on me. It's already 
opened up to 2 liter. Of course, I could still go the quick route with the 
ready engine if I just pull the weber progressive from my current engine.

Thanks for providing the information I needed to sort this out.

John

----- Original Message ----- 

> The megasquirt rules.  If you're a bus purist, then keep your L-Jet.  If
 you want to actually be able to tune your bus, go with the MS.  It is
 definately a project, but you'll learn a hell of a lot about fuel
 injection theory and it's really cool to have the best running bus around!

> not really.  There are people that will build the ecu for you, but you
 still need to make the cables and stuff like that.  That is probably the
 most difficult part.  Then you also need to find places for sensors and
 things like that.

> However, once you get all the wires run, if you've got an L-Jet system
 it's pretty simple to make the mod.  I just used all the existing
 injectors and stuff and cut up an old l-jet harness and plug everything in.

> check this site out:

 http://tbone2091.tripod.com/megasquirt/

 >You might also want to check out:

 http://www.megasquirt.info

> and the megasquirt forums:

 http://www.msefi.com

> mike
