Date: Sat, 30 Oct 2004 10:26:22 -0400
From: toobwiz <toobwiz(-at-)knology.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Megasquirt, after 3 yrs??? (Long)

If the list is sick of this topic, please flame me gently, I'm 
temperature sensitive :-)

I've been back on the list for a couple of weeks because I am finally 
getting China Cat on the road with the help of Chris S., from here in 
Knoxville, and the list in general. I've read the back posts via Search, 
and see that Mike has done this conversion, and there was a good deal of 
stuff from Chris M. as well, though I couldn't tell if he had gone with 
MS. I've also reviewed the MS info as I haven't been on that list for 
over two years. Interested to see that there was a VW and a Porsche 
forum, and did a quick review there.

Anyhow, back to China Cat, my 75 Westy, 1.8L. I've put on rebuilt heads, 
cc'd them, checked the P&C clearances and CR, honed the cyl walls and 
reinstalled the existing P&C (replaced 2500 mi. ago). Heads had cracks, 
so after culling a half-dozen prospects, I finally had a good apir of 
earlier heads with largtish valves flycut and rebuilt. This engine had 
been converted to Weber 2-bb. progressive, and I read on the list the 
problems axxociated with that one, carb heat, etc. and then bought a 
pair of SPDIT from a 1.6, but finally decided to bring it back to L-jet. 
I bought a used 2.0L engine for the FI parts and also got the fuel pump. 
FPR, brain, and wiring harness from the donor bus.

I'm going back in with the semi-rebuilt 1.8L, but will likely do a 
top-quality rebuild on the 2.0 if the core checks out good. But for now, 
I'm mainly interested in getting the 1.8 working its best.

Now for MegaSquirt... I am a lifelong electronic tinkerere, having built 
my first radio (vacuum tube) in a cigar box in 1956. Building and 
integrating the MS is no big deal for me. I'd be interested in knowing 
how many on the list have converted to MS, What engine was concerned, 
Which components had to be replaced (I think I have a good ahndle on 
this from the forums), and if there were any unsuccessful conversions.

Finally, have there been any quantitive measurements of HP acheived with 
MS either on 1.8 or 2.0 engines, and what highway speeds have been 
achieved. I saw Mikes post on fuel economy and that seems to be enough 
to make the conversion worthwhile even if no speed increase was obtained.

Whew!!!/Fader
75 Westy China Cat
Knoxville TN
