Date: Thu, 15 Jan 2004 09:36:43 -0800 (Pacific Standard Time)
From: Larry Edson <sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: discovered rocker rust (was cold weather painting)

I have never checked on a Bus but I know that Karmann Ghias are
constructed with a series of drain holes at the bottom of the rockers so
that any water that does get in there will have a chance to escape. In the
case of the KG those holes are essentially small gaps at regular intervals
in the seam between the inner and outer rocker skins. The problem is that
over time dirt, sand, and salt get into the cavity as well and clog up the
holes so that the mixture sits in there and stews. So, what I'm getting at
is that if Busses also have these holes make sure you clean them out
before shooting POR 15 into the rocker cavity and make sure that the POR
15 doesn't clog them up in the process.

And, regarding cold weather painting, I don't recall anyone suggesting
that 'fast' reducer be used when painting during the winter. But even fast
reducer won't do you any good at 32 degrees. I think the paint can would
probably have directions warning not to use it at temperatures under about
50 degrees.

Larry
sonofed(-at-)karmannghia.org
www.ghiatwins.homestead.com
 O o\ /o O


> Date: Thu, 15 Jan 2004 09:18:21 EST
> To: benthin(-at-)prodigy.net, cjay(-at-)well.com
> From: VWBrain(-at-)aol.com
> CC: type2(-at-)type2.com
> Subject: Re: [T2] Re:discovered rocker rust (was cold weather painting)
>
> Hello Mike   Take one of those big syringe things and fill it with the POR
> and squirt it into a small hole at one end then take an air blower and blow into
> the hole till the POR comes out the other end. I did this on my 64 356C
> porsche by drilling a small hole at each end in the wheel housing then putting a
> large amount POr inside ,then blowing it thur with air, . Be sure to wear face
> protection . If it starts to come out of any holes cover them with a piece of
> duct tape, Seal the ends with chalking or body sealer. Later and have fun  Mark
> Dearing  Salem Import Service  Salem Va
