Date: Fri, 15 Apr 2005 09:31:33 -0700
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Nick Kneen <kneen(-at-)email.arizona.edu>
Subject: RE: [T2] FW: SEMA Legislative Alert: Arizona Emissions

Hi All -

from Craig, this is factual:

 >.... most busses can pass with some work,
 >even if the motor is in that configuration JUST to pass, and gets put
 >back to 'normal, drivable' right after the test.  personally, i think
 >most folk want to avoid the testing just because it is a hassle, or
 >from anti-gubmint issues, NOT due to worries of failure.
 >
 >be careful what you wish for:  mark my words, states using this
 >bill's language are halfway to REQUIRING collectible insurance to
 >continue to drive the vehicle... meaning no daily drivers, no road
 >trips. trailer queen/weekend driver time.

Yes, at least in AZ and CA, almost _all_ mild vw street motors, no matter
what they consist of, can be smogged.  Even the 110hp 2376 torque monster
Dean Lowry motor topped with Weber 40's in Dr. Mac's old ghia that I get to
humble the beemer crowd with at an occasional Solo II race.

I've owned a '71 Kombi since 1980, in CA and now AZ for past 15
years.  Each of these years required an emissions test.  The tired old
stocker was replaced by a new motor in 1981, running first a Weber 32/36
and then a set of Kadrons, on top of a variety of head, piston, case,
rocker,cam  and crank configurations using an 009, full flow exhaust, etc.
- totaling something over 250,000 miles.  Each year I groan, delay, ignore
until past the last moment - and somehow, finally pass and paste on the
sticker.  Some years it's taken two trips, one year three.  I used to keep
a set of 120 mains for the Kadrons just for the test.  I ritually, and
probably uselessly, scrub out the exhaust pipe with green scrubbers and
soap, just so no stray carbon particles get stirred up by the sniffer
pipe.  The upcoming test for the new 78X90.5 motor should be
interesting.  More on this motor at:
http://eeb8.biosci.arizona.edu/nick

Craig's take regarding the oncoming realities of legislative requirements
aimed at hobbyists and concerned owners alike, driving these old junkers,
will be proven correct.  The professionally restored oval or convertible,
oem all the way, will of course have whatever insurance is
mandated.  Emissions is a minor issue on a $12-15-20k and up motorcar.  The
rest of our tired third world oxcarts are, hopefully moving, targets in the
radar of whatever political bureaucracy we live in.  We are impeding
economic progress, not buying enough new cars.

Nick
