From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 23 Apr 2005 13:38:32 EDT
To: matchka(-at-)earthlink.net
Subject: Re: [VB] Kelly Park

Swapped out the tranny in the orange bus with the one from Dave.  This one 
was really loud in 3rd and 4th, bummer.   Should we take the 58? Shoudl we tune 
up the red 61 and take that?   Oh whatever, really want to take the new bus.   
  Left Olympia later than expected...decided not to go down 101 as it takes 
longer.  Didn't get my crap together to leave till Wednesday about 6pm... on 
the freeway headeing south on I-5 by 7pm.  Which is totally rediculous.  
especially as the bus is happier not going over 50, with the split case tranny it 
seems 58-62 is really the max cruising speed, even with the 1600, though you can 
push it faster,just doesn't soudn right... which makes  a longer trip than I'm 
used to... so we head south.... through Oregon... bus sometime doesn't like 
to start with key after freeway driving.. curse of the bad starters?...stop 
late at night in Cottage Grove, bus stalls after getting off the freeway, have to 
push start it maybe?   something is crap with teh electrics or battery... old 
battery... donated by Lindo Calerisian from a 66 deluxe after the new one had 
the terminal break off... get the Ronnie's driveway, bus stalls in dark 
Oregon hill copuntryside, pitch black probably 2am, roll start backwards keep the 
revs up zoom up the drive .   Did you know he has goatees?   the animals that 
is... they're really cute.   
Continue on the next day after checking out the VWs... south I-5... slow up 
over Ashland Summit.. gets dark just about Redding... we stop at Denny's in 
Redding for fine dining.   Shifting is sticky.    After eating check linkage and 
gear oil.  well, whatever... keep going...did I mention it's loud in 4th gear?

Stop at a rest area near Willows,   Kettlecorn David shows up in the stretch 
bus from OR.  Say hi  Decided to keep going.... end up at my Mom's house in 
the Bay area at something early Friday am...   have a good nights sleep and wake 
up Fri am with time to wash the bus, leave some stuff thre, get a burrito, 
and head south to Red Barn in time to get there at a reasonable afternoon hour 
(maybe 4 or 5 actually I think) 




In a message dated 4/21/2005 4:54:53 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
matchka(-at-)earthlink.net writes:


> This should be in Clara's trip report.
> Long day,  good talking with new and old friends
> The Red Barn ( BYOB ) report looks the same :)
> With a good camp out!
> P & C
> Madera then Atascadero
> 
> Anyone on the list go to Kelly Park? In past years there were numerous posts
> after all the Big Events! I always enjoyed reading the feedback.
