From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 1 Sep 2003 00:08:19 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Fan and alternator problems

In a message dated 8/31/2003 2:10:05 PM Pacific Daylight Time, 
jiminwis(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

> Took the engine out (usually an hour job by myself, but I forgot that the 
> 74 Beetle
> engine has a nut in the upper left bolt position holding the engine to the 
> transmission, and it was a real bugger to get out--I don't know how I managed 
> to
> get that bolt tight when I installed the engine!),


Hi Jim,
Yes, we just hammer out the upper left pressed in nut plate and use the 
earlier bolt washer and nut.  Then when installing the doghouse engine leave off 
the exhaust tube and exhaust shell till you have the upper left nut and bolt 
tightened.  The problem with the later doghouse type bolt,nutplate setup in an 
early VW is the rear clutch cable arm is curved in the way and installing the 
later straight arm requires replacing the rear clutch cable boden tube holder 
(Plus there are two versions (Long or shorter.) of the straight arm and thusly 
differant rear boden holders!!!) to aim the rear end of this boden tube exactly 
at the eye in the clutch arm.  Not doing this results in 6,000-10,000 mile 
clutch cables due to rubbing/wearing out on the missaimed end of the boden tube!

> So--my question is, can I use the fan and backing plate from spare 
> generator equipped engines that I have around, or must these parts be from an 
> alternator
> equipped engine?  I realize that the alternator/generator tower would have 
> to be changed, but would anything else?


If we remember correctly you need alternator tin and there are at least two 
versions of 12 volt generator tin.  One being a two or three year around 1969 
that was only bus 12 volt gen tin for the longer higher amp generator!!

> Does anyone have fans and the parts I need for sale? 
> I looked for an hour or two at a number of on-line catalogs and parts 
> listings with no luck, except for finding alternators and the fan hub and nut, but 
> no fan, including Bus Depot, AirCooled.net, and Old Volks home, among others. 
>  If they have the parts listed, they fooled me, and need to make their web 
> catalogs easier to use.

OK we are guessing you have a doghouse shrouded engine.  For this type of 
shrouding you MUST use a 33, 34, or 35mm wide fan measured between the discs that 
make up the body of the cooling fan.  Using any smaller width fan will cause 
a doghouse shrouded engine to have cooling problems!!  If you have an earlier 
non-dog house shroud you can use the fans up to 29mm, but using a larger fan 
you can find is just going to cool the engine better.
  We do have some used fans if you can not find one new!
Eric&Barb
