From: "jdd" <johndillon(-at-)sympatico.ca>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 1 Sep 2003 04:12:05 -0400
Subject: Runs in paint

So I painted the interior of my bus last fall and this spring with acrylic
enamel.  I had a significant run on my dash which I quite easily removed with
a run razor and sand paper.  It turned out really well - or maybe not - but
I'm very happy with it.

This summer I've been working on my bus above the belt line.  I sandblasted,
sanded, blah blah blah.  I shot epoxy primer and high build - sanded thru a
bunch of places so once it was smooth as glass I shot it again with epoxy and
high build.  I had ... maybe two small runs in the epoxy and they sanded right
out.  Then, today, I shot urethane seagull grey - damn - what a mess.  I still
haven't gotten over the shock at the number and size of the runs.  At first
there was a huge run on the roof - it appears like it ran done into the roof
gutter so ... dat's ok.  But between the belt line and the roof there must be
10 runs and probably half of them are big - one is huge.  I was walking around
the front of my bus and I touched the front with my paint can.  I hardly had
any paint left so I shot some on the paper and once it was coming out well I
shot the front a couple of times - what a mess - huge run.

So what's the best way to fix big runs in urethane?  Do I just use my run
razor and then sand em down with 600 - then 1000 then 1500?  How long must I
wait before starting?  As I recall I waited for like .... 1 1/2 months before
dealing with the run in the acrylic enamel - I'm sure urethane will harden way
way faster but ... how fast?

I said yesterday to someone - "I really wish I had something to paint first -
because I have never used this stuff before."  Today I said the same thing.

Upside is - the paint colour looks very nice - very close to seagull grey -
strange colour that seagull grey.  Sometimes it looks grey - some times light
green and sometimes kinda beige.

TIA

jdd 60 std, 78 westy
