Date: Mon, 1 Sep 2003 21:44:32 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: blown fuses

>From: MIKEMELBROOKS(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Mon, 1 Sep 2003 18:56:48 EDT
>
>Hi after changing the carb on my 67 deluxe I decided to go on a test run.
>About a mile and a half later the bus cuts out back fires warning lights
>come on as I coast to a halt.

You might have more than one problem.  Stock, none of the ignition or
carb wiring is fused.  You should be able to take every fuse out of a
split-window Bus and still start the engine.  (You shouldn't drive,
mostly because you would have no brake lights, but you can start the
engine.)  It could be that whatever is shorted and blowing the fuse
is dragging down the system voltage enough that the Pertronix won't
fire and/or the fuel cutoff solenoid in the carb is closing.

>The engine starts but as soon as it does it blows the main 16amp fuse
>on the right hand side.

There should be two 16 amp (red) fuses on the right.  The one on the
far right is for stuff that works all the time - it feeds the horn,
the hazard flashers, and both dome lights.  You can drive a bit
without this fuse, but you really should have it in so your horn
works.  The next fuse to the left is for stuff that's only on with
the key - it feeds the brake lights, turn signals, and windshield
wipers.  The engine will run without this fuse, but you shouldn't
drive as you won't have any brake lights.

Stock, the "battery" fuse will only have solid red wires on one end,
and the "ignition" fuse will only have solid black wires on one end.
If you disconnect all the wires from the _other_ end of either fuse,
and hook them back up one at a time, you may be able to narrow down
what's making the fuse blow.

>If not can I run the engine with the dynamo disconected will it
>harm it?

If you disconnect it electrically, it should be OK.  I would suggest
taking off the fat red wire from the battery, and the blue wire from
the dash light, at the voltage regulator.  Tape up the end of the fat
red wire really well so it can't ground out on anything, and rig the
blue wire to ground so the generator warning light will glow as a
reminder.  A well-charged battery might get you through a day's worth
of driving, as long as you have relatively long periods of time
between starts.  It won't last very long at night, because the lights
are a heavy drain.

Don't take off the fan belt to disable the generator!  This will also
disable your cooling system.  You knew that already but I thought I
would mention it.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
