From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 27 Oct 2005 21:06:54 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Engine\Power loss troubleshooting help

In a message dated 10/27/2005 8:13:48 A.M. Pacific Standard Time,  
harmony(-at-)buszen.com writes:

>>  So what do you all think??  That the cylinder with  the stripped stud 
started pulling out causing a massive compression leak and  spurting oil???  <<



Hi John,
Yup!
  Best she park the VW till this weekend, and on Friday night you two  can 
get working on it.  As is the engine could loose all the oil out the  head stud 
hole fairly quickly.  Buy an engine rebuild seal/gasket kit  before.  The more 
the VW is driven the more damage to the sealing  surface of the soft aluminum 
head.  Take the engine out strip it down to  just a long block, retorque ALL 
the engine case fasteners.  Then  you can take a good look at the engine case 
around where the head studs go in  it.  Especially the loose head studs!  You 
want to figure if the case  has had case savers installed (Solid threaded 
steel inserts) or not.  If  not, you can install self tapping head studs, and that 
probably will do the  trick.  You will need to remove the loose head studs 
and measure or  take them with you to a shop that has these studs.  There are 
several  lengths of these and two diameters
  If case savers were installed, you can only go so big in  diameter.  There 
are three sizes of outside diameter case savers  available.  
  After fixing the problem/s loosen ALL the head stud nuts and  retorque via 
proper pattern and torque value.
  The most likely reason that then head studs are pulling out is the  engine 
case has in past OR even now is being run too hot.  This will soften  the 
aluminum/magnesium (AKA Electron alloy) of the engine case and allow  fasteners to 
pull out.  It would be a good idea to install at least oil  temp and pressure 
gauges to help monitor the engine.  Plus install  temporarily a tach to find 
out what MPHs at what RPMs she is driving  it.
  Eric&Barb
