Date: Mon, 31 Oct 2005 14:46:19 -0800
From: "jdparker" <jdparker(-at-)lava.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I need some valuable input...?

Aloha,

  I have recently purchased a new $4200 SCAT turnkey motor and it has been
nothing but trouble and headache ever since. The only thing they did do was
build it quickly.   I have a 67 bus with newly rebuilt stock
tranny(reduction gears and all), most of everything else has been newly
rebuilt.

  If you care to read on to the facts, please see below.  But basically,
I've never been treated this poorly by a company buying anything.  They
refuse to help me now and they have told me that they are sick of me calling
them.  I tried to return the motor to them (after I would eat roughly $400
in shipping for nothing to show for it, but a month or two of headache and
renting cars)  They sent me the wrong muffler, the wrong tin, a defective
Mallory Distributor, no header gasket kit to install exhaust,  the wrong
accelerator cable, no build sheet, no warranty I could find (they said they
sent it. hehe like everything else I guess), and are basically telling me to
&*%$ myself.   For the first week I had it, I did nothing to it because I
knew that I did'nt want to add any more confusion to the mix of what could
of happened to it.  This is why all the phone calls on how to proceed.  I
went by a locally respected VW shop yesterday, and he said he was already
trying to fix another new turnkey motor that someone recieved from SCAT.  It
turns out that his noise, was a piston actually stamping an imprint on the
head as it impacted it.  Needless to say this is totally unacceptable when
your out over $4000.  They are speaking to me like all the trouble has been
for them!

  My big question is this:  What can I do legally now?  I did'nt even mind
eating all the shipping costs. (I'm in Hawaii) They have sent me a new motor
that is totally bogus and has caused me so much grief I cant believe it.
The owner "Tommy" has been defensive and treated me with complete
disrespect, and tried to blame and insinuate everything on me.  Can someone
please help me with what local or interstate agencies to call or what to
do????   I'm really hosed here and already out $4200+, and a vibrating
motor.   Better Business Bureau??

 

Facts:  1776 turnkey Scat motor and all they include..  There are now 700
miles on the new motor and I have just changed the 50w oil to 40w as per
SCAT instructions.  They problems listed were all from day one.

            C25 cam 

            Dual 35 solex

            Volkstroker c/w crank

            1.25 rocker arms

            1700 lbs stage 1 kennedy pressure plate

            New clutch

            Etc..

 

Problem:  Missing and sputtering at higher RPMs.

            Fix:  After 1.5 months of going around and getting treated very
badly by SCAT, I tried replacing the "Mallory" distributor that they for
some reason decided to install on my moter, with a Bosch 009 just to see
what happened.

            Result:  Sputtering and missing solved.  Scat dealer here in
Hawaii said it was a defective distributor.  How that was missed at the
factory is beyond me.

 

 Problems:   Flat/dead spot just off of idle(in neutral) and would die with
any load on it (clutch engaging).  One of the carbs was also not sucking as
much as the other one and one of the throttles was opening before the other
one.

            Fix:   adjusted nylon hew nut (WAY) in so that I was getting
more of a squirt on acceleration.  Adjusted the arms and individual idles to
synchronize.

            Result:   Engine running extremely rich and will only idle
pretty high, although sucking evenly.  If I adjust the squirt lower, the
dead spot comes back. 

 

 

BIGGEST Problem:   A low sounding vibration coming in at the lower/beginning
RPM range.  A strong vibration that is obviously not right.           

        Fix:  Replaced with newly rebuilt transmission, mounts, all shift
rod bushings, throw bearing, berg shifter etc., adjusted and re-adjusted
clutch 

            Result:  Absolutely nothing.  Still Vibrating strongly.(almost
like a lugging, but does it in neutral as well. With clutch pressure, it
increases the vibrating though.

 

More Background:  I've been working every chance I get to remedy this motor.
I've rented a car 3 times, and spend well over $400 after paying $4200 for a
SCAT turnkey motor.  I obviously only paid that much so that I would not
have to deal with all of this.l

  I have been treated so badly by SCAT, that I can not believe it.  They
refuse to refund the motor, and are trying to blame everything on me.  What
can I do??????  I'm in Hawaii so driving it into their wherehouse building
like "The Terminator" is out of the question.
