Date: Tue, 01 Nov 2005 09:43:13 -0700
From: Nick Kneen <kneen(-at-)email.arizona.edu>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] I need some valuable input...?

Hi All -

"I have recently purchased a new $4200 SCAT turnkey motor and it has been
nothing but trouble and headache ever since. ..."

No, everyone has it wrong, jumping to quasi-legal advice.  First things first. 
  All the tuneup and missing/wrong parts issues only prove that they probably 
never started it up - or only the single 2,000 rpm breakin.  They shipped a 
product more or less as their ads state - such and such pieces (the mention of 
50W oil is more than passing strange though.  20W should be more like it for 
breakin).  Yes $4,200 bought a bunch of stuff bolted together.

All these things done wrong and the time and money spent to make it right 
could be written off as a needless and useless extra cost needed to make a 
mail order motor perform properly - all the things that a competent local 
builder would include correctly (or the owner builder would do for himself). 
Proof that buying an image of a product is inherently troublesome.  And it 
opens up the discussion to such issues as: Was it balanced, and if so what 
parts and how - what other shortcuts did they take that aren't visible - did 
they install a problem ?

Bringing us to the crux.  Though missing, there is apparently some form of 
warranty.  Ok, what is it?

"BIGGEST Problem:   A low sounding vibration coming in at the lower/beginning
RPM range.  A strong vibration that is obviously not right.
Fix:  Replaced with newly rebuilt transmission, mounts, all shift
rod bushings, throw bearing, berg shifter etc., adjusted and re-adjusted
clutch
Result:  Absolutely nothing.  Still Vibrating strongly.(almost
like a lugging, but does it in neutral as well. With clutch pressure, it
increases the vibrating though"

Before taking the motor apart to find the cause of the vibration, take it out 
of the bus, measure the endplay, check for a spun bearing, turn it over by 
hand to see if any detectable clues.  In the end only the facts will help you 
prevail.  Once armed with more information I believe you need to talk to a 
fresh voice at SCAT in a bid to resolve the issue without legal overhead. 
Ronnie of OldVolks fame says he talks directly to the big cheese at SCAT - see 
if he can't give you a contact there.  He'll likely have some useful advice as 
well.

Nick
