Date: Wed, 02 Nov 2005 13:18:57 -0800
From: "jdparker" <jdparker(-at-)lava.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Some valuable input...

Before taking the motor apart to find the cause of the vibration, take it
out of the bus, measure the endplay, check for a spun bearing, turn it over
by hand to see if any detectable clues.  In the end only the facts will help
you prevail.  Once armed with more information I believe you need to talk to
a fresh voice at SCAT in a bid to resolve the issue without legal overhead. 

Ronnie of OldVolks fame says he talks directly to the big cheese at SCAT -
see if he can't give you a contact there.  He'll likely have some useful
advice as well.

 

Nick

 

Nick,

  Thanks for the advice. I will NEVER buy a mail order turnkey (or
longblock) again!  Unfortunately, I was dealing with the head cheese over
there already.  I had only gotten him because I mistakenly "went off" on the
sales guy who was doing absolutely nothing for me.  I would wait a week or
so to receive my build sheet, accel cable, correct muffler, rear tin, AND an
answer to some of the problems, and when I called him, he said, "How can I
help you." Like I was annoying him again. (He had completely forgotten any
of the problems we had discussed) 

   I should'nt have gone off on him, but I was that frustrated.(and freshly
broke)

   I have spoken to the owner(not the sales guy) with nothing but total
respect and patience.

   Now, the head cheese "Tommy" is laying on me, "what more can we do for
you. you've got to fish or cut bait.."  "You chose us to make you a motor."
"You're not a mechanic, and we are. What are you doing fooling around with
your timing." (I, with one of their local dealers, timed the new 009 when we
pulled the Mallory) Not exactly tuning an indy car.  Though the carbs gave
me some trouble dialing out the dead spot without the richness.(it was
originally supposed to come with an 009)   Totally uncalled for statements
to a customer who is really the one who's going through the trouble. 

  The owner also stated that they explicitly state in their documentation
that the motor needed to be installed by a professional mechanic.  I have
not been able to find this documentation. (I'm not saying it does'nt exist,
just that I have not seen it and cannot find it)(remembering that they
could'nt even include their build sheet for $4200)  He also kept asking why
I did'nt mention the vibrating early on.  I had!!!   

  He's already starting in with lining up his "we're not responsible
anymore" B.S.  The reason that we did'nt discuss the vibrating so much early
on, was because of the malfunctioning Mallory and the more evident problem
of the extreme dead spot, and the missing and sputtering.  I had mentioned
it though.  I guess he thinks most people should'nt loosen/tighten 4 bolts,
a cable, a hose and 3 push terminals to "professionally install" their
motors.

  Bottom line is, now I'm looking at more rental cars, possible MOREb
mechanics fees to have the local guy possibly tear apart my motor (after he
finishes the last NEW SCAT motor he was fixing.)  The owner never said that
they would reimburse me for anything else done.  The answer was "no" to
returning the motor for a refund minus shipping.

  I do appreciate all the input, and am researching most or your ideas right
now to get "my" ducks in order.  Man, it's tough when you only have one car
and you get hosed like this in the middle of trying to get to your job
daily. Almost enough to get out of split windows and VW's...and buy a normal
person's car..  Naaaaaaaa!!!!

Thanks again for any input and advice..  ---JD
