Date: Thu, 14 Feb 2002 00:44:51 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)home.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Blinker help!!

>From: TJ Stallone <theos1(-at-)optonline.net>
>Date: Tue, 12 Feb 2002 20:15:23 -0500
>
>The ['65] DC has a different relay set up than my ghia so Im lost.

The round canister right next to the fuse box is the flasher.  The
rectangular box a little farther to the right of the fuse box is
the relay to blink the rear lights in hazard mode.

>Could anyone tell me what wires should have voltage all the time?

The black/white/green wire at the flasher and the black/purple wire
at the relay should have power all the time.  It sounds like you
have this already.

>I hit the T/S switch and nothing happens.

Eric&Barb have good advice on checking the bulbs and grounds.  A quick
way to check the rear bulbs is to turn on the ignition and step on the
brakes.  If the brake lights come on brightly, good.  Turn the ignition
off.

Next, unplug all the wires at the flasher.  Don't let any of them ground
out to the body or you'll be replacing a fuse.   You should have three
wire ends: one for a thin blue wire (for the indicator in the speedometer)
and two that have black wires with various stripes on them.  Connect
these two to each other and let the blue wire hang free.  Flip the turn
signal switch to the left and your left front and left rear bulbs should
come on and stay on.  Flip the turn signal switch to the right and the
right front and right rear bulbs should come on and stay on.  If any
of this is not as you expect, you most likely have trouble in the bulbs
or sockets, maybe in the wiring, and possibly in the turn signal switch.
When you're done, put the turn signal switch back in the center and
disconnect the two black wires at the flasher from each other.

Turn the key on and ground the thin blue wire at the flasher to the
body.  The speedometer indicator light should light up.  Now step
on the brakes and flip the turn signal switch to the left.  The
right rear light should be on but the left rear one should be off.
You should be able to make the left rear one come on by touching the
two black wires at the flasher together.  Vice versa: flip the switch
to the right and the left rear light should be on and the right rear
light should be off.  You should be able to make the right rear light
come on by touching the two black wires at the flasher together.  If
you don't get the results you expect, the trouble is probably in the
turn signal switch.  Turn the key off when you're done.

If all this checks out, your flasher may be at fault.  If you have
an original VW flasher, make sure it is hooked up according to the
diagram.  If you don't, a three-terminal aftermarket flasher will
probably work.  The always-hot wire at the flasher (black with
white and green stripes) should go to "X", the other thick wire
should go to "L", and the blue wire should go to "P".  Be warned
that this might make the indicator light in your speedometer glow
with everything shut off.  If your Bus is 12 volt you can get a
#559 four-terminal aftermarket flasher that will fix this.

As an aside, a flasher is basically a self-resetting circuit breaker
that is a little undersized for the load of two turn signal bulbs.
When the turn signals are first turned on, the bulbs come on and it
takes a few seconds for the flasher to "trip" and turn them off.
After a few more seconds it "resets" and turns the bulb back on -
lather, rinse, repeat.

Once the turn-signal stuff is working, the hazards should probably
work as well.  If the rear lights blink but the front ones don't
when you turn on the hazards, the trouble is probably in the hazard
relay.

To test the hazard relay, pull off the thin wire connected to 86.
Use a jumper wire to jump terminal 30 to terminal 86.  The relay
should click and both front turn signals should come on.  These
relays usually ground through their mounting clip, so make sure
they are solidly clipped to the body.  If you verify with a test
light that you have power at 30 and the relay is solidly clipped
to the body, then the relay is most likely bad.

>The only part of the diagram that isn't clear is the emergency flasher
>switch. It has no numbers on it so I hooked it up in a way that seems
>logical.

As far as I can tell, the emergency flasher switch simply connects all
four of its terminals together when it is switched on, so it doesn't
really matter which wire goes where.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


