From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 15 Feb 2002 10:59:34 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] I had to take the engine out (Neophyte update)

--part1_14c.8f720c5.299e8a66_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 2/14/2002 9:03:05 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
passmore(-at-)shaw.ca writes:
> I removed the engine and found that two out of 3 of the springs had come off 
> of their clips.

Hi Gary,
Do you mean two of the three springs that holds the clutch release ring to 
the pressure plate arms were off?  Was the clutch release ring still in place 
on the arms?


 Looked at the surface of the throw-out bearing and looks > shiny and not 
> scarred as well as the face that the previously mention bearing mates with 
> on the pressure plate(?). Also found a broken bolt on the right rear tranny 
> mount.
> 
> so the new question is would that broken bolt be the root of the problem.  
> would that have created enough movement to cause this to happen.

Could possibly be.  Was the half of the bolt loose in the bellhousing and 
does it look like it was through a rock tumbler?
Checking tranny il level is easy with or without the engine in place.  Just 
slide a finger horizontal in at the top of the fill plug hole.  Once your 
finger tip touches the gears inside you move vertically downward while 
keeping the finger horizontal till you have it laying on the bottom of the 
filler hole.  Raise finger back up horizontally and slide out.  If you have 
oil on the tip of your finger it is full enough.
As someone else has mentioned it would be a good to make sure the wheels turn 
by hand in all gears before reinstalling the engine.  Also a good time to 
replace all the sections of flexable fuel lines from the fuel tank to the 
engine if they are two or three years old or who knows.  Check rubber axle 
boots for cracking, leaking.  Replace who knows how old rear flex brake 
lines.  Check clutch disc for being at least over 7mm thickness.  Check that 
the rear end of the clutch boden tube is aimed like a rifle at the eye of the 
rear clutch arm.  Change out old tranny oil.  Etc, etc....... 
  Also this is a good time to start a log book for your bus to keep track of 
repairs and MPG readings.
Eric&Barb

--part1_14c.8f720c5.299e8a66_boundary--
