Date: Thu, 15 Aug 2002 08:40:29 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Curriegs(-at-)aol.com
Cc: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] engine miss

Here's what I would do (& have done). Go to you local VWFLAPS &
purchase a new Temp Sensor II. This is the little screw sensor that
screws into the #3,#4 head right next to the intake runners. These
things go, well goofy, from time to time. It's around $20 & easy to
replace. There is a procedure to check the sensor, but that doesn't
account for an intermittent problem. On second thought, check to see
that this sensor is tight in the head first, then if it is go get one.

The other thing I would check first is the AFM. This is the gray box
directly after the air cleaner on your bus. Bentley has a procecure to
check it & it's very easy. The only thing I would add to the procedure
is to take a wooden pencil & move the flapper on the inside of the AFM
while measuring resistance between the poles. If you see the contact
break the you prob have a worn contact place. Mine had a section of
the contact worn out right where it would be at around 60 mph. So when
I was driving at that speed (esp on moist days) my bus would lurch as
well.

these are fairly easy tests you can perform. If you don't have a
vacuum gauge & fi pressure gauge, might as well go to the store to get
one, you will need on at some point to diagnose problems on the FI
even if these procedures bring something to light. The lurching
doesn't sound like a vacuum leak to me BTW.

On Thu, Aug 15, 2002 at 12:45:35AM -0400, Curriegs(-at-)aol.com wrote:
> I have a reoccurring problem with a 79 bus, engine stock with FI.  
> Occasionally it is hard to start, and after coaxing it to start, it will only 
> give me 6 to 8 seconds of power, then the bus coasts for 7 to 8 seconds. If 
> my foot remains on the accelerator while coasting, then the bus will 
> typically lurch back into power for another 7 to 8 sec.  This cycle will 
> repeat itself for miles.  It hasn't done this for my mechanic, so he's not 

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
"Two wrongs don't make a right, but 3 rights make a left"
-Cosmo
