From: "Mike Benthin" <benthin(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "R. E. Haufler" <rehaufler(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Thu, 15 Aug 2002 20:36:03 -0400
Subject: Re: musical bus? (Analyzing whiny noises when shifting/clutching)

).  Quoth R. E. Haufler rehaufler(-at-)mac.com:
"Clutch pedal in - whining sound is throwout bearing (mine has been whining
for a year now, goes away when it warms up).
Clutch pedal out - rattley, grinding sound is pilot bearing (mine has been
doing this for a year or so, intermittantly)."

I agree that when clutch is pushed in and you hear whiny/squealing noises
it's likely a throwout bearing- but quibble with statement that it's  the
pilot bearing when clutch is out.  Consider the conditions-. clutch going in
or out is not the same as clutch depressed- as you push the pedal in, the
pressure plate releases its hold on the disk as the throwout shaft/bearing
pushes on it- one may hear whiny or chirring noises just at that point and
that's likely the throwout bearing. Noise when letting it out again? -
usually then it's likely your disk is worn down to the rivets and they are
rubbing on the flywheel or pressure disk.  An oily/slipping disk or a broken
disk spring may cause chatter.   Remember, the disk is "part" of the trans
shaft and the flywheel side/pressure plate keeps spinning next to it.   So
if it's a bad throwout bearing, it will chirr both at first contact and
while clutch is depressed.  I had a friction disk peel off one side and it
broke up, with the pieces pushed into the corners of the flywheel
depression, causing wierd "grabbing" at times even when clutch pedal was
depressed.  It went away when I went into neutral, as this disengages the
trans shaft from the gears.  Finally,  the exposed rivets caused a loud
"chirring" noise and the impaction of the loose disk material prevented
disengagment of the engine, prompting me to pull it as I couldn't shift
anymore.
     The pilot bearing keeps the friction disk centered due to the trans
shaft sticking out beyond the friction disk and riding in the bearing,
itself part of the flywheel/engine. .  When you push the clutch in, the
engine/ flywheel/pressure plate keeps spinning while the lack of pressure on
the disk lets it slow and stop if you are standing still or in neutral while
coasting.  The bearing spins around the transhaft.  Should this bearing bind
and you are in gear, it will either cause squealing while clutch is in, or
even "grabbing" it it holds the trans shaft a bit - may cause difficult
shifting.  When at a long light or standing in traffic I am in the habit of
putting the trans in neutral and releasing the clutch- saves the throwout
bearing  and the pilot bearing, since the clutch, engine, and trans shaft
spin together then.  Got the same throwout bearing and pilot bearing for
over 237,000 mi now.  (Same trans too).
M Benthin, 78 Westy

