Date: Thu, 15 Aug 2002 19:29:29 -0500
From: craig k <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: cam questions

ok, i have nearly all the bits i need to start work on the 1700 SP T1 
motor... except the cam, and i could use opinions.
the engine is going to have a new aluminum case, machine-in 88 p/cs, 
a pauter engineering c/w 69mm crank and wedgemated, lightened 
flywheel with berg (heavy) achiever pulley, berg flow oil, SP heads 
that have some mild porting and a 3-angle valve job and some spring 
shims. likely carb is a stock 30-pict 2 or 3.

why all this crap? well, some i have had lying around forever, some 
came (relatively) cheaply off the internet. so while maybe not my 
dream motor - that would have a c/w 72mm crank, but having one made 
is too much $$$$ - it is going together for about the same as a 
beetlemex, and hopefully will have a bit more leg.

IF i get a good cam!  now, the votes have been pretty much even on 
stock vs aftermarket. the two votes for stock that i put the most 
weight in are tim at gene berg and todd at rimco; both state "stock 
carb/stock cam," period. they also stated that SP heads won't flow 
enough no matter what you do to take advantage of hotter grinds. btw, 
i like SP's for busses, so that's why i'm currently sticking with 
them.

two heavy votes for bump it are from schneider cams and ronnie 
oldvolks, with a lesser vote from cbperformance; now, i know grinders 
want to sell me something, but they seemed to have good rationale.
  schneider has a very mild cam 
http://www.schneidercams.com/cams/107.htm, the 248-4f that he 
explained allowed a bit more time for air to fill the cylinders, but 
didn't A) keep the exhausts open long enough to scavenge the charge 
or B) have so high a lift to do.... whatever the heck lift does! 
(some cam talk i get, some i am learning, and some is math :P  ).
cbp has a similar, slightly hotter cam - 
http://www.cbperformance.com/catalog.asp?ProductID=53  . ronnie has 
been talking to a grinder about the ultimate bus cam, but it won't 
come in time to help me....

keep in mind i want to keep the lowend torque, fill the cylinders a 
bit more than the stock cam,  and keepa decent idle , NOT worry about 
high rpms or screamin' off the line.

ronnie says he built this exact engine for a customer with the cbp 
stick - does that person want to post their experiences?

while a voice inside of me is going 'stock! stock!'  i do fear that 
if i hate the performance of the stock cam i will have to take it 
apart and replace it. only out-and-out advantage of a hotter cam is 
that if i hate it, i can pick out a set of these DP heads and  baby 
dells lying underfoot and put em to use...  i might still hate it, 
but an easier experiment than tearing down the block!!

footnote - bob hoover stated to 'put in a subaru 1800' bless his 
heart.  but his basic (much appreciated,bob) answer was that stock 
was the way to go, unless i wanted to have a custom ground cam and 
experiment. i'll let ronnie do that  :)
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
