From: "J Barry Burneskis" <honey_bus(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Mon, 13 Mar 2006 16:05:30 +0000
Subject: Dead by the side of the road - Sunday

Hey, what a great experience!!

The '78's Fuel Injection engine just suddenly STOPPED ! ! !  I was going 
about 10 mph in a Woodbridge VA shopping center parking lot and I was able 
to swing into one of the many empty slots.

With the help of Jay Ollom on the other side of my phone, I did all the 
electrical checks and all looked fine.  I figured it must be the fuel 
system.

My home was just 9 miles away, and I called my daughter and she showed up 
with some tools.  With a 'co-pilot', I pulled the access nut off the left 
fuel rail and held a folded up paper towel against the opening.  The girl 
turned the engine, and no fuel came out!!

Well, back home to the garage for another fuel pump, a dual relay, and an 
AFM.  I also had a spare ECU somewhere in the garage, but I did not have 
time to find it.

I checked the fuel pump at home, and it was smooth whirling.

Back to the '78.

The sun was getting low and I had no time to do the tests that everyone is 
going to recommend.  I was in the public, and I wanted to get underway if I 
could.

I put on a fuel pressure gauge on the open access port on the left fuel rail 
and  swapped out the double relay (easiest thing to do) .  The girl turned 
the engine and no fuel pressure.

I went under the van and pulled the POS wire off the fuel pump, put a jumper 
wire from there to the spare fuel pump + and grounded the spare fuel pump.  
The girl turned the key and the spare fuel pump went a  whirling away!!

Back under the van, but before I got into it, I reseated the installed fuel 
pump's pos (power) and neg (ground) wires .  Still no action.

So I swapped out the fuel pumps and the van started right away.  I checked 
the fuel pressure and I was getting just over 30 psi, possibly 32 psi.


We caravanned home and all was well.

Just to be sure, I checked out the FI fuel pump I pulled of the '78 and it 
whirled as well as the other ! ! !


I might have been the ground wire on the installed fuel pump, I guess.  I 
will reinstall the old fuel pump just to be sure.

Barry send
