From: "Melissa & Jerry Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "vintagebus \(vintagebus\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>, "type2"
Date: Tue, 14 Mar 2006 06:39:21 -0700
Subject: AridZona Camp-Out

 <http://www.thesamba.com/vw/shows/index.php#2417> March 31, 2006 - April
02, 2006 - Fiesta de Whetstone 
Whetstone, Arizona 
Fiesta de Whetstone II (ABC Spring Campout) 

The Arizona Bus Club invites all members and friends to hop in the bus and
join us March 31st - April 2nd in Michael Holzman's field for a southern
Arizona campout. The club will provide 4 acres of level ground and enough
port-o-lets to keep things sanitary. It's private property so bring your
swap stuff and firewood. Michael's place is located right off highway 90
just north of Huachuca City, Arizona. The address is 453 Camino De Tundra.
Depending on where you're coming from take I-10 to Highway 90 (Just West of
Benson) and head South. If you get to highway 82 you went too far South.
Caravan will leave Fry's Electronics (on Baseline and I-10 in Phoenix) at
9am Friday morning and take a circuitous but scenic route through some
lovely back roads. Lead the pack and you won't have to eat any dust. The
only planned event is a Friday night potluck dinner. Our goal is to get away
from the smog and relax; if that sounds like fun then pack up your VW and
come along. Email David with any questions; dclehan(-at-)qwest.net

 

 

Please pass this note along to your friends in the bus community. 

 

Michael Holzman and Tim Gudenkaf from the ABC are teaming up to feed
everyone supper who shows up at Whetstone (that's Friday March 31st.) On the
menu is Michael's famous marinated Pollo Asado and Tim's homemade frijoles
with fresh tortillas; basically they are going to stuff us with delicious
food and only ask for a modest donation in return. Michael is also
encouraging us to clean out our stash of stuff and do some serious parts
swapping. Add all that to the horse shoes, kite crashing contest and
proximity to Bisbee and Tombstone and we've got a real fun campout on our
hands. 

 

Anyways, he's hoping to pack the place and I think if we spread the word we
can accomidate him.

 

-David

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type image/gif which had a name of image001.gif]
