Date: Tue, 14 Mar 2006 05:56:51 -0800 (PST)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Walkingboss <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2]steering box knock?

this seems to be what i am thinking... yesterday was the first day i couold really look at it and see what was going on....
  not having no one turn the wheel for me i grabbed the bottom of steering column laying under bus and turn the column as far as i coould which is pretty far of a gap of looseness IMHO.....
   
  the falt spot theory goes well cause of this right here...
  after inspection not finding anything rubbing or loose i drove around a bit and when i turn the wheel ONLY to the right right as oi go to turn the wheel it almost feels like it slips and then the wheels start to turn with a little more ummmphhhhh~!~
   
  so guessing that goes with the flat spot theory...
  i will sit down sometime tonight and go over my bentley and see what i can do but i will probaldy go ahead and replace the steering box also and readjust everything...
   
  i found another front end as well someone is Kynd enough to give me for free longs i come pull it which will be fun i am sure... so i havent gotten the bus aligned yet...
  course my adjuster on the ball joint that was just replaced cant be adjusted... it was tack welded to the arm so wont be moving that adjuster in alignment process so i guess once i get the new/used front end pulled and put on my bus then i will replace steering box also at same time and make everything whole again instead of jerried up...
   
  say more later when i know more about the process and yes i will be doing the work on her from here on out...
   
  i dont think pulling the front end will be to bad?
   
  the steering box i have heard bad things about but i will overcome...
  this really sucks in some ways with camping season just now taking off but when i am done with this mess i have gotten myself into LOL i will fell better when its all done.
   
  btw afraid to adjust anything on this steering box for fear of it tearing it up more...
  the ball joint mess put me in a world of hurt here.... guess thats why i paid to have them redone....but live and learn. Learning that i am..... as i grow and growing as i learn.
   
   
  chai
  

Walkingboss <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net> wrote:
  Hi Chai,

Sounds like at some point, there has been some impact on the steering
linkage/system. (could have been when you had the ball joint problem) (could
have been long ago, hitting a pot hole or curb)
Just a guess, but if when the ball joint came loose, the weight slammed
back against tie rod. This may have caused a flat spot on your steering box,
Worm and Pinion.
Now as you turn the wheel and the gears turn against each other, they
have to pass that "flat spot", causing a bind and noise.
Also in one of your earlier posts, you indicate some slack in the
steering box itself. (when you turn the steering wheel, the tires don't turn
right away). This is adjustable.
First make sure the steering box mounting and steering box top are
tight. Also check that "All the steering parts are tight, and have no
slack", tie rod ends, ball joints, linkage, etc. After you have made sure of
that, your ready to adjust. (See Bentley for details)
To adjust the box, start with the wheels in the straight ahead position,
loosen the "lock nut with screw" in it, on the top plate of the box, then
while "Rocking Gently" on the steering wheel, turn the screw in till it
bottoms out, then back off on the screw slightly while again "rocking the
steering wheel", when finished getting the slack out, lock the nut while
holding the adjustment screw in place.
Now here is the down side. If the worm and pinion does in fact have a
flat spot, adjusting the slack out of the box will only make this more
pronounced, may even lock up the box in that spot! That wouldn't be very
good needless to say.
Sorry to say, but it may be steering box replacement time. Check our
vendors for rebuilds, but a good "Service Tested" (used) one would be much
less that a rebuilt unit.
Let us know.

Howard


Subject: Re: [T2]steering box knock?

> Chai wrote: past two days now i been hearing a
knock when i turn the wheel back and forth gently...



                                                                 Driving down the road singing a song~!~
          ~ Heading towards the FuLLMoon~
