From: "Kevin Guarnotta" <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
To: <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 24 Oct 2004 16:30:50 -0400
Subject: exhaust & radio

Thanks to Rob-who hooked me up with a stock muffler-and showed me how they
get hooked up.

I went over to Rob's garage yesterday and saw his very nice looking Karmann
Ghia. He gave me an old stock exhaust he had, and showed me how to hook it
up.

Last night I started taking the old single quiet-pak and header off. I
realized the 4 main bolts that hold the bumper on were very rusty...they
used to come off very easily. It took a bit longer than usual to take things
apart-so I made a note of some new bolts to get(a bunch of stainless steel
replacement bolts). I also wire-brushed the old muffler, and painted with
some high-temp paint. I know it won't last long, but I like to try.

I got up early this morning, hooked the exhaust up-realized the holes next
to the heat riser tubes are threaded(very nice feature) my old header did
not have.

Anyway, I got everything back together-took three tries to remember to get
all the gaskets in place before bolting things together. I didn't have the
band clamps to connect the muffler to the heater box-so I used metal tape
until I get those clamps in. Rob also helped me out with some gaskets-which
was nice, because I thought I had some, but couldn't find them anywhere.

The other issue I had was the gasket between the dampner pipe and muffler.
This gasket is slightly smaller than the standard gasket, luckily the old
one was re-usable, but I've got to find a source for these smaller gaskets.

I got everything back together, with the new stainless bolts and screws-the
stock muffler looks so much nicer from the back.

Next I cleaned the inside of the bus-got to make it look good for the
insurance appraiser.

Then I looked at my radio-Rob inspired me to take a second look at that. It
hasn't worked since I replaced it. Turned out to be a simple fix-I had the
hot wires hooked up incorrectly. I switched them, now I have AM RADIO again!

Felt like a good bus day....clean interior, radio works, muffler looks
nice...

Thanks again to Rob for the muffler and the electrical inspiration...

-Kevin
