Date: Thu, 21 Mar 2002 20:31:25 -0500
From: Jim Mowreader <xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Type2 List <type2(-at-)pon.type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting the bus myself...

H Steven Dolan sends:

> Let me (and the list) know if you find anything.  I know that some
> manufacturers are using water-based systems in their factories, but AFAIK,
> all aftermarket paint is still solvent-base of one sort or another, usally
> a very explosive 'nother.
> 
>                          Steve Dolan

Let's see...
Tried DuPont, no dice. They probably have a waterborne system they sell to
GM, but we aren't GM.

Sikkens only has the waterborne primer, no waterborne topcoats. This is
strange; with the environmental consciousness of Europeans, you'd think
they'd be first in line with one.

Same deal with PPG. I did find the PPG SX1060 primer-surfacer, which is
specifically designed to be applied with a roller.

And Sherwin-Williams--waterborne primer, also waterborne sealer, no
waterborne topcoat. (Fun direction in their waterborne primer TDS: "Store in
sealed, lined, airtight cans to prevent mold growth." Mold on car paint?)

The Glasurit 90-line (for cars) and 66-line (for trucks) are waterborne
topcoat systems sold to refinishers. I will be damned if I can find out
what's in it, though. (Guess I have to call the Glasurit dealer in town and
ask if they have the technical data sheet for 90-line. Unlike Sikkens,
Glasurit doesn't put their TDS on the internet. Fortunately, the DuPont, the
Glasurit and the Sikkens dealers are all close to my shop--the Glasurit
guy's a block away, the Sikkens guy is a mile and a quarter and the DuPont
guy is in our building. Lessee...a printing plant and an autobody supply
store in the same building; anyone want to guess what our fire insurance
premiums look like?)

OTOH, on the side of the Sikkens can are all sorts of fun fire warnings.
They should just write "this is a bomb" on the front of the can and be done
with it.
-- 

--jmowreader
xpr3(-at-)earthlink.net

Congratulations to Sterling Marlin for winning the Carolina Dodge Dealers
400!

