From: "John Dillon" <johndillon(-at-)bellnet.ca>
To: "'Mike'" <airmike(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 26 Sep 2009 19:38:42 -0400
Subject: RE: [VB] Engine wows ... damn it.

... nice mike .. that is exactly what I'd like to do ... I have my original
tranny but I'm thinking about getting it upgraded ... I cruise nice at 55
but I'd really like another 5 mph ... any idea what I need to have done to
the original transmission ... I'm glad to hear I can use the 6 volt flywheel
.. I thought for some reason I'd need a 12 volt fly wheel. 

I just spend a ton o' dough getting the gas tank of my 78 cut open,
sandblasted, welded back up and lined (it was really really bad) so I'm
thinking about putting off the new engine for a bit .. I would like to start
putting together the stuff I need tho ... I guess I should start looking for
an AS case ... 

Anyone have any suggestions as to what I need for other engine parts ...
doesn't happen to be a list anywhere on the web hey? 


Hi John,  saw your post, an thought I'd throw my two cents in on your 
question.
If your forty horse is about to give up and "retire",
I'd recommend upgrade to a 1600 single port. It gives you the power you want

with the stock
appearence (pretty close anyway) of the 40 horse. I have a '63 bus that came

with a
1500 engine (not the OG engine, just the same type).
The 1600 is built up with stock fuel pump and fittings plus an old style 
"big cap" (ZV/PAU 4R5)
distributer and stock engine speed limiter (govenor).
Unless you kneel down and look real close its hard to tell from a stock 40 
or 1500.

The engine is built up on a "AS" case which is a late model engine case 
(super beetle era) with better alloys
and so forth. I'm running a 6 volt flywheel and using a 6 volt starter on 
the engine even though my bus
is 12 volt. I've been running the same six volt starter for the 15 years 
I've owned my bus (its a 15 window deluxe)
Works fine. I'm running a 12 volt generator out of a 67 or 68 bug (forgot 
which)
This powers the 12 volt upgrade system on the bus. As I said unless you look

real close you'd never know
the difference between 6 or 12 volt.

My bus has the "big nut" tranny and with the the 1600 single port, depending

on road and winds I can roll
between 65 and 70 comfortably although most of the time I cruise at 60 or 
so.
For an all around stock appearing engine with a bit more power at reasonable

cost this is my recomendation.
