From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>,	<type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 05 Oct 2009 10:12:23 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting

Did some thinking about GAMI article listed below. VB folks, its great 
reading.

Could placing thermocouples on the exhaust manifold pipes as they exit the 
heads provide a meaningful reading? Of course the temp would lag a bit as 
the steel needs time to warm up/cool down and the actual temp would be 
slightly lower than the actual EGT. At least one could determine 
comparatively what is going on in each cylinder. Hottest, coolest.  Maybe 
use SS hose clamps to hold the thermocouples on the pipes.

How would this relate to oxygen sensor readings? Usually there is only one 
sensor giving an "average" reading of the 4 cylinders. Maybe ideally one 
should be using an O2 sensor on each exhaust port and use that information 
to calculate fuel delivery per injector. Could be a sea change improvement 
to the MegaSquirt. Fuel savings over time could easily pay for the cost of 
the extra sensors if mileage were to improve by 15% or more. Then again, if 
the air charge in each cylinder was not even, the cylinder to cylinder HP 
would not be consistent causing rough running on the lean side. Hmmm looks 
like a major scientific study for a VW engine guru.

On my engines, from reading the spark plugs, 1 & 3 always seemed to be a 
little leaner than 2 & 4. 2&4 always look like there is more soot on them. 
Could this be a reason why 3 is the bain of the VW engine?

Chris


On Thu, Oct 1, 2009 at 1:39 PM, Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:

 You might try replying to that thread and see why John is saying the things
 he does.  He's quite knowledgeable in regards to engine tuning.

Hi All,

I wrote privately to John. He referred me to this article at GAMI
(General Aviation Modifications, Inc). This is sort of the "Jake Raby"
of aircraft tuning optimization.

http://gami.com/articles/bttfpart1.php
