From: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc." <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Timo Schairer" <tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de>,
Date: Tue, 06 Oct 2009 08:37:19 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] Solex Rejetting - Round 2

Hi Timo,

I believe you could obtain reasonable readings by simply using a hose clamp 
to hold a thermocouple to the surface of the exhaust pipes as they exit the 
heads. The temps would be lower than the actual EGT, but you would find out 
which cylinder is running hottest, coolest etc. This way you would not hurt 
the integrity of you exhaust  pipes and there would be no obstruction of the 
exhaust flow. You would also be able to quantify the effect of the jet 
changes. Temperatures rising or falling. You could then tune the carb for 50 
degrees F above or below peak EGT as per the WAD criteria.

Regards,
Chris


From: "Timo Schairer" <tschairer(-at-)wsi-gris.uni-tuebingen.de>


Hi all,
first, I want to thank everybody for their help concerning my lean and
hot running bus. Today, I talked to the engine builder (Kummetat, the
company that rebuilt my AMC heads). He wants me to drive to his shop and
to make tests on his dynamometer - something I'll be definitely doing
once I get the engine to perform without approaching a CHT of 400F most
of the time. Therefore he confirmed me in putting in bigger jets (140
mains). He's also sending me some smaller air correction (150) and
bigger idle jets (55). What I did not know is that the cutoff valves on
the standard Solex carbs also have different sizes (52 and 55). I'm
going to look through my spare carb parts to see if I can find two 55's.
Concerning the lean/rich thread: Since there seems to be consensus on
the fact that even more important than CHT is EGT, who has installed
such sensors and what are the temperatures that one should expect?
Looking at EGT probes (e.g. here http://tinyurl.com/y8llroa ), they seem
to be fairly cheap and could be installed into the heat exchangers right
below the cylinder head by just drilling a small hole. Of course one has
to route the sensor wires (Type K thermocouple) all the way up to the
dash and find a gauge that ideally can be connected to 4 probes. I'm
already far beyond the common instrumentation level (oil temp, rpm, CHT,
AFR), so I just won't care dropping in some more gauges if this can
confirm me in running a healthy engine... So, does anybody have any
experience with EGT probes?
Thanks for all your help, it's greatly appreciated!
Timo
