Date: Tue, 10 Jan 2006 00:01:47 -0500
From: Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrog.com>
To: Tracy Lind <VWTracy(-at-)msn.com>,  type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Using Rustoleum Primer

Re: [T2] Using Rustoleum Primer. Interesting questions.
I will take the position of "detractor":)
De tractor likes fish oil paint. I dont.
Rustoleum (tractor paint) does not have
the chemistry ($) for a quality automotive
finish.

It is a reasonable product for use on chassis,
preferably in the "rusty metal" primer fornula, in bulk,
applied wirh a gun and compressor, but not in the rattle cans,
as the paint film is too thin, it simply does not "build".

It may be my rural upstate NY location, where harsh weather
is the norm (and farmers actually have tractors:),
but local suppliers at Tractor Supply Company and Central Tractor
can provide a catalyst for their own top coat tractor paint, which
will add desirable wear and shine characteristics.
Catalyst is not available for the primer.
Both stores have websites and info access.

Do yourself a favor and look into Nason, a DuPont line,
and Omni, a PPG product, as a low cost alternative for
topside refinish. They can both provide lower cost substitutes for
enamel or (poly)urethane product. They also have acid etch, epoxy,
and other primers in a lower price range, and automotive specific.
You can get good info at the PPG and DuPont websites, and a visit
to the local counterman.

I have offered these suggestions with good intentions,
while I myself don't follow them. I use the good stuff.
The only complaints you will ever have with $200+/gallon primers,
$600+/gallon polyurethanes, and ($)additives is the price.
Not interested in another rattle can debacle, to each his own.

And yes, you must prime over filler.



Tracy Lind wrote:
  I'm encouraged to see people using Rustoleum as a method of painting their
  busses.  I have two questions:

1.  Should you primer over the Bondo spots
2.  Is it alright to use "Premium Rust-oleum Clean Metal Primer?"  It does not
  say if it is for indoor or outdoor use.  I did not see Rustoleum Auto Primer.
