From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sun, 26 May 2002 21:20:07 EDT
To: madmanblake(-at-)yahoo.com, type2(-at-)type2.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] wrong crank pulley/timing???

In a message dated 5/26/02 9:28:44 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
madmanblake(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< 
 3.  Following the advice of an archived post, I set
 the timing to the 7.5 BTDC mark to get it going, with
 the hopes of checking the dwell and adjusting the
 timing witht the light at idle.  Well, from where I
 sit and try to make the thing start, or if I'm looking
 at the engine while someone else starts it, 5 ATDC or
 7.5 BTDC, doesn't seem to matter.  It will try to
 start, make it for a split second, and if no gas is
 applied, dies right out.  If gas is applied, it will
 run at high RPMS, but will not idle, and dies once gas
 is released.  Any suggestions?
 
 These seem to be the main questions in my mind as of
 now.  I'm sure more will come soon enough...
  >>
so, its sounds like you can't get it to idle, no matter what you do or how 
you tweak the timing.  so seeing as it's a DP, do you have a 34-pict carb?   
9 out of ten times I have had the problem you describe it's because of an 
icky gummed carb, usually a 34 pict.  If those 34picts sit, they get gummy.  
Never had much luck trying to clean them out, though I hear there is a secret 
passage.  Find an adaptor and put a 30/31 on there.  

re- pulley marks- ya it's hard to tell.  take a spark plug out and use a 
screwdriver to see when the piston is closest to the outside- that's TDC.  
use some liquid paper to mark it on the pulley- real easy to see with the 
timing strobe light.

best to figure that out before you bolt the heads on for greatest accuracy.  
But don't worry, it's okay.  just make it sound good.   I do the turn the 
carb adjustment screw in till it starts to die, then 4  half turns out (or 2 
whole turns). If it has two screws then do the other adjustment screw the 
same way.  this affects the first adjustment, so go back and forth always  a 
few times till they're cool.   Now rev it up and let it drop and listen.  You 
know you set the timing for what distributor you have, right?  not the case #.
