From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "'Westfalia'" <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>,
Date: Mon, 27 May 2002 07:20:20 -0700
Subject: RE: [VB] Horn repair?

I've pulled several apart in the quest to understand horn basics... Aside
from an obvious physical damage issue that could/did cause a moisture leak,
there is nothing inside that can go wrong (besides the PO effect and
lightening discharges).  What you will find is the adjustment screw that
comes out the back needs attention (or at least for hella brand).  Remove
the horn for easiest work and clean the outside.  I have a 6/12V battery
charger on my bench that I use as a power supply to test all electricals.
Most times the head of the adjustment screw is pasted over with some form of
anti futzing agent so you'll have to remove it first using an xacto knife or
similar.  Clean out the slot of the screw well.  Several of my early screw
terminal versions have just a little dab while later spade terminal ones may
have it potted in a hole.  If your horn doesn't have that adjustment screw,
punt.  Hook up power to both terminals and turn the screw until it starts
making noise.  Don't force anything but it should be reasonably stiff.  Turn
it a few turns one way and if no sound, turn it back two and then two more,
working your way in both directions a little at a time.

Hook it up and blast away... then again, if no sound, it's time to check the
wiring.  By the way, the wire from the steering box should be spiral wrapped
in wire for protection.  Search for 'horn' on Thoms sight for a picture of
the horn installed on the double cable.


David




Steve wrote::
I thought a while back someone wrote up a horn resto post....or am I
just dreaming?

My horn stopped working on my '62 so I pulled it apart to try and fix
it.  All looked like it should I guess since the Bentley and my original
VW transporter manual (through 62) don't show any procedure for fixing
it.  I tried the one off the 65 but it was a no go also.  Finally found
a beetle one that works reallllly loud....must be 6v.  I want to fix the
original one.


