From: "bus-snob" <hazetguy(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 27 May 2002 8:50:26 -0700
Subject: Sac Bugorama report (condensed)

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8
Content-type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII


we went to the sacramento bug-o-rama for a variety 
of reasons this time. first, how can you pass up a big vw show so close to home; 
second, to buy some needed and not-so-needed parts; third, i was meeting up with 
a guy who i bought a 58 westy from, as he was delivering it there for me and 
also meeting with the guy who was going to bring it back to monterey from sac 
for me. 

we got there saturday afternoon and there was 
already a very large crowd of campers, swappers, and drag racers. we found a 
place to park and started walking around in search of the elusive "gotta have" 
parts. we found a few things and after walking around for a while, we saw the 
deliverer of the westy pulling up to my bus. we rushed over and introduced 
ourselves and checked out the bus. we also had some fun screwing with the heads 
of people coming up to the bus by acting as if we were in negotiations for the 
price of the bus. "ok, i want $200"; (counter-offer) "no, i'll give you $150"; 
(reply) "no, $200"; (counter again) "how about $175 and a six pack of bud 
light?; (reply) "well.... $175 and regular bud"; (counter) "SOLD" and a 
handshake. this got some funny as hell replies from the onlookers who were 
amazed at the "cheap" price. then we walked around some more, ate some food, and 
generally relaxed for the rest of the evening. unfortunately some unbelievably 
loud a$$ holes were partying until 2:30 am right next to us, but i was the only 
person who apparently heard them. 

sunday morning came way too early and again, we 
were off to buy parts. rachel decided to sleep in, so she missed out on some of 
the deals. parts were CHEAP (barring the usual inflated price people selling 
high dollar stuff). one of the early deals was a guy who basically said "what'll 
you give me" to the piles of parts in our hands. and when we replied with "a 
dollar" or two, he unbelievably said ok, so we kept making more piles! later in 
the day, rachel got a very nice original early bug front bumper from the same 
guy for $2!! i found an NOS (with the parts sticker still on the back) bus 
primered domed hubcap which the guy GAVE to me for FREE! i felt bad, so i made 
another pile of parts from his stuff and gave him the requested $2 for the pile! 
it seemed like the bigger the piles, the cheaper the parts became. i don't 
remember spending more than $20 with any one person except for the guy i bought 
3 new specialty vw tools from, for a whopping $10 each. 

we loaded the westy into the trailer to get it back 
here, and then it was off. the deliverer decided he needed to head back to 
idaho, so hee took off as well. after that, rachel and i ventured to the show, just for laughs, and actually saw a few interesting 
cars. the show itself was mainly bugs and ghias. there were more interesting 
cars in the for sale area and parked in the swap area. after being horrified in 
the "custom" side of the show, we ventured back to the swaps for the "final run 
through". i found an NOS splitcase tranny mainshaft, 2 of the front tranny 
brackets for splitcase (they were NOS as well), some NOS horn wire boots, and a 
few other random NOS trinkets for $20 for the pile. rachel got a single cab side 
door latch and 2 door strikers for her 56 for $1 (for the pile), and she also 
seemed to have armfulls of parts that were cheap. what a day.

we decided that enough was enough, and that it was 
time to get out of the sun, so we headed home. we got back and hit the showers. 
after a quick dinner it was off to bed. i don't think i was in bed for 2 minutes 
before i was asleep. so today brings the fun of going through all the scores and 
cleaning out the bus, getting it ready for the trip back east this 
weekend.

 

 

------=_NextPart_84815C5ABAF209EF376268C8--

