From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 27 May 2002 17:47:20 EDT
To: fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] new engine blows two oil coolers

First I would check the relief springs- and make sure they are stock, good, 
and not oversize/aftermarket, or installed in the wrong place.  i think one 
should be 69mm, forget the other size, might be in the idiot book. You need a 
big screwdriver and I like to put a pair of vise grups on to help getting the 
screw loosened.  Nice thing is not much oil comes out, so even though it's 
good to put a drip pan underneath, less than half a cup will come out (unless 
you JUST ran the engine, and it hasn't settled yet).   I have heard of 
coolers turning into footballs from high pressure because of a stretched or 
heavy duty AM spring used in cold weather with thick oil.  
 This winter I put a new oil pump that takes the screw on oil filter on my 65 
westy and blew the filter  when it was about 30F out, so went and got one 
with a relief spring.  It is pretty heavy duty, and in the temperate weather 
here it oil pressure idles at 40 doing round town driving with 30wt, with it 
50* out, which is kind of higher than I am used to.   Thought it needs over 
90psi to blow seals. (or coolers)  The other thing is could the cooler have 
clogging?   Try the next one after getting it flushed for at least an hour 
(over night is better) at the local friendly shops solvent tank.    And let 
it idle a bit before revving the motor. Don't even tap the gas until it idles 
for 5 minutes.  Could you cut open one of the old coolers with a hacksaw and 
see how much deposits are in the passages?   are you using upright or 
doghouse?

Do you have an oil pressure guage?  It might be abnormally high at the 
sender.  The pressure is definately getting TO the cooler, but there may be a 
clog after the cooler that keeps the oil from dropping back into the sump, 
which makes the pressure real high and blows the cooler.  hm if I remember 
right, after the cooler, the oil goes to the bearings, and then into the 
sump, so that could causes bottom end issues due to oil starvation.      When 
an engine is diasassembled and the case cleaned, normal procedure is to blow 
out all the oil passages and make sure there is good flow, and that any 
gurk/old metal chunks/etc are cleaned out.  I wonder if that was done 
properly in your motor.

Dunno what oil weight you are using, or what temperatures you are having.  
But regardless, it ought not to blow coolers.   I once took a cooler off a 
motor to change the oil cooler seals, and found one of the old seals was 
folded over, mostly blocking the oil passage, yet the main bearings were 
fine.   Did you get a heavier duty oil pump?

Good luck with this.   If it is not the springs, it may be a messed up oil 
passage, which means dissamemby and reassembly, probably with a good case, 
what a pain.
Hope it all goes together well.   I really enjoy your road trip stories.

 In a message dated 5/27/02 11:22:31 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za writes:

<< 
 What could cause a new engine to blow up two oil coolers?
 
 Some history on this engine: this is the second time it has been rebuilt to
 this spec; the previous time it ran beautifully for nine hours before
 mysteriously suffering a sudden major heat seizure.
 
 Blocked oilways?
 Too strong oil pump?
 Relief springs too strong?
 
 Anybody have any idea what's up with this engine?
 
 fig >>
