Date: Mon, 27 May 2002 18:04:13 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Horn repair?

>From: Doppelkabine <chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com>
>Date: Mon, 27 May 2002 14:37:02 -0400
>
>>From: Westfalia <swharris(-at-)adelphia.net>
>>Date: Sat, 25 May 2002 18:41:22 -0700
>>
>> I thought a while back someone wrote up a horn resto post....or am I
>> just dreaming?
>
>Check the VB archives for a post by VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com on 30 Oct 2001.

http://www.type2.com/archive/vintagebus/054596.html

In addition to what has been posted, some general information about
horns:

Most automotive horns are just a solenoid (coil of wire), two contact
points, and a metal diaphragm.  The horn is built so that the contact
points are normally closed.  The hot wire goes to one contact point.
The other contact point goes to one end of the solenoid.  The other
end of the solenoid goes to the wire to the horn button.

When you push the horn button, the solenoid is energized right away.
The magnetic field pulls the diaphragm one way, and also opens the
contact points.  This de-energizes the solenoid and the magnetic
field goes away, so the diaphragm snaps back the other way, and the
contact points close again.  This cycle repeats as long as you push
the button, and the rapid vibrating of the metal diaphragm makes the
noise you hear.

Some horns have a condenser (capacitor) across the points.  It reduces
arcing at the points, just like the condenser on your distributor does
for your ignition points.  If the condenser has gone open circuit, the
horn will probably work for a while but eventually fail as the points
get pitted due to arcing.  If the condenser fails short circuit, the
horn probably won't work at all.  I don't know if all VW horns have
one but I know some other automotive horns I have taken apart do.  If
you can get the condenser by itself (not hooked to anything), measure
its resistance.  If it's a dead short (zero ohms) it's bad.  It may
measure a low resistance when you first hook up the meter, but it should
very quickly charge up and become an open circuit (infinite resistance).

When you turn the adjusting screw, you are changing the points gap -
just like setting dwell on your distributor.  If the points are too
close they will touch all the time and the horn will draw lots of
current but make no noise; if they are too far apart they will never
touch and the horn will draw no current and make no noise.
 
Beware of too-clever arrangements of the adjusting screw and mounting
provisions.  VW horns aren't like this, but I ran across a Suzuki horn
that was.  The horn body was threaded and there was a grub screw threaded
into that.  Then the mounting bracket went over the grub screw and a nut
threaded down to hold the bracket.  The problem was that the grub screw
was the points adjusting screw, so if you needed to take the bracket off,
it was almost impossible to loosen the bracket nut without also messing
up the points adjustment.  It was a pain in the butt to re-adjust this
mess, too.  Again, VW horns aren't like this but others are.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds


