Date: Mon, 27 May 2002 21:01:20 -0400
From: Doppelkabine <chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com>
To: Vintage Bus List <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: VW Show report: Bug Out 51

For those interested in ACVW activities east of the Rockies, here's a
synopsis of the semi-annual Bug Out (#51 in the series), the biggest VW
show of the mid-atlantic region and one of the biggest on the East
Coast.  It was held on May 26th in Manassas VA at the Old Dominion
Speedway.  Weather was hot and muggy all day, mid-80s, until of course
around 5pm when the requisite thunderstorm interrupted the awards
presentation as it seems to do almost on a regular basis.  There were
show cars, drag races, cars for sale, and new and used parts vendors. 
Total number of cars was around 240, of which the aircooleds were
probably just over half.  Nothing to report about the trip as Manassas
is less than an hour away from my place in northern VA.

I'll skip all the Beetles and Ghias and Things and get to the aircooled
bus content:  16-count 'em-16 total Type 2s.  That's actually a good
showing for this area!  8 splitties, 7 bays, and one vanagon camper.  Of
the splitties, we had 3 campers, 2 doublecabs (including me), one
singlecab (for sale), one ratty panel (also for sale), and one beautiful
sunroof deluxe.  Of the bays, we had 4 campers, 2 standards, and one
outstanding green singlecab--a real beauty.  In the special category, we
had one shortie bay singlecab done up to look like a tow truck--pretty
cute.  There was also an outstanding two-tone splittie standard on hand
among the non-show buses, but as ususal it was just there to tow a race
Beetle--what a waste.

The event organizers did something different with the aircooled bus
awards this year--there were only two, campers and non-campers.  No
breakdown into splitties versus bays versus vanagons as had been the
usual case.  Biggest complaints of the awards ceremony were from the
tuned-and-lowered 20something waterpumper crowd.  It seems that no
matter how the organizers try to group and regroup the waterpumpers,
there is still a group of angry pants-dragging, tattoo-sporting,
earring-wearing malcontents who feel they got screwed by the judges and
want their money back.  As opposed to the aircooled participants, who
tend to be older and thus more laid back about the whole awards thing.

All in all it was a pretty nice time, although I had to drink 2 gallons
of water to take the heat and the small venue made it harder to hear
once the drag races got started.  Got many complements about my DC when
I wasn't out looking for parts.  My only big find for the day: a
correct-size muffler donut for the dampener pipe on my DC--something the
FLAPS around here can't seem to get right.  Cost me a whole dollar! 
Otherwise the flea market area was rather ordinary--didn't see any rare
and/or expensive stuff for sale, like DD bus middle seats or W-decklids.

Interesting non-bus entrant:  the aircooled Beetle with the V-8 engine
up front and radiator in back.  Very well done, you couldn't see any
difference with the lids closed.

-- 
Chris Hobbs and family, Leesburg VA
'67 Type 2 DoubleCab (stock)
two '74 412 wagons
'74 Beetle sedan (standard)
'79 Beetle cabriolet
