Date: Fri, 07 Jun 2002 23:35:44 -0600
From: dgrauer <dgrauer(-at-)sasktel.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: That brake subject on 71 and newer. 

Im not sure this was covered very well this week and
since its still friday (by my clock) I thought I'd get
away with this. 

The rear brake drums do not have automatic adjusters. 
AS the rear shoes wear they just get ineffective. 
Eventually, when the rear shoes wear down the bus ends
up braking on the front pads only!

You can tell this from two symptoms:

1) The hand brake becomes in effective.  Even if you
yank it all the way out.  This occurs because the back
shoes on the rear drums are too under adjusted to
contact the drums even with the cable tight.

2) The brake pedal seems to be under assisted or
stiff.  All the brake occurs near the bottom of the
pedal.  This occurs because when the brake pedal is
pressed the fluid goes takes the path of least
resistance; in this case to the open the rear cylinders
fully open. Once the rear cylinders are fully extended
the fluid stops going into them and bobs-ur-uncle, the
front calipers bottom out and stop the van.


To solve this I tighten the rear shoes when the hand
brake starts to become loose.  

The best way I have found to do this is by jacking up
each side of the rear with the tire on.  Tighten the
front shoe with the adjuster until the wheel gets tough
to turn and then back off till it gets easier.  Repeat
for the rear shoe.  Then repeat on the other side of
the van.  Use a large blade screw driver (I have an old
wood chisel that I keep around just for this)  This
takes me about 30 minutes on a good day, and for my
driving habits is a once per year thing.

Trust me on this, the cable seldom does not need
adjusting on an older van, unless the cable was
recently replaced.  That old cable is about as
stretched as it can ever be.

Logan
Brake adjuster in snow drifts!

I will be out of town on business for the next week. 
So please don't be offended if I don't reply till next
friday.
