Date: Sat, 08 Jun 2002 22:27:25 -0700
From: Tom <turtlebus(-at-)netzero.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: EGR vacuum line & oil pump blueprinting questions

I finally have my EGR system installed on my 75, thanks to Karl's'
assistance in locating parts. This list and the people on it are great!
Now that all the plumbing is in I have a problem with it. When I let off
the gas the rpms drop off severely before coming back up to normal idle
revs. When the engine is cold it occasionally stalls when I let off the
gas. I suspect the vacuum in not connected to the correct source. Looked
through all my manuals and didn't find anything to indicate where it
should be connected. Does anyone out there have a 75  with the vacuum
controlled egr that could check where it is connected to the vacuum
source? I currently have it connected to the port above cylinder 4 on
the air distribution box. There is an unused port on the throttle
assembly that points to the rear of the bus. This is the one on the low
pressure side of the throttle that has vacuum all the time. Wondering if
the Egr should be connected to the port on the throttle that points to
the front of the bus, this is the port that the distributor advance is
connected to. I Don't think the egr valve is leaking because I
disconnected and plugged the vacuum line and the problem went away.
Suspect too much vacuum is being supplied to the valve at idle
preventing the electric solenoid from holding the valve totally closed.
Before installing the valve I took it apart and cleaned it. used some
valve lapping compound to ensure the plunger could seal well. All ideas
are most appreciated.

Next, I'm wondering if there are any sites out there that explain how to
blueprint the oil pump on a fuel injected engine. I have the "How to
hotrod your VW" book but it only explains how to improve the type one
pump. Took apart my spare pump this evevning to see if I could apply any
of the type 1 knowledge. Not much the same between type 1 and 2 pumps.
Think this pump has too much end play on the gears because it rattles
when I shake it. Can't figure out a good way to measure it. It has .010
clearance between the teeth and I couldn't measure any clearance between
the teeth and the body. Don't have a thin enough feeler gauge to fit.
The end plate shows very slight scoring but not enough to catch a
fingernail on. Trying to figure out how to remove the scoring but the
locator sleeve at one of the bolt holes prevents sanding it smooth like
on a type 1 pump. Am I trying too hard to save some bucks or should I
bite the bullet and buy a new pump?

Thanks again to all of you,
Tom

The Turtlebus lives again.

