Date: Sat, 14 May 2005 15:00:07 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: What to do while engine is apart?

Hi Volks!

I'm planning to dismantle my '72 panel van's Type 1, 1600cc engine
to fix its oil leaks.  A set of gaskets, a set of pushrod tubes,
and an oil seal for the crankshaft where it meets the belt pulley
are already purchased.

I keep getting different opinions as to what else needs replacing
as a matter of course.  Rings, some said.  Pistons and Cylinders,
a few said.  Intake manifold rubbers, someone said.  Upgrade the
oil cooler to Type 4, someone else suggested.

Well.  Probably all of this can't hurt, but then getting a new
Mexican engine can't hurt either, except my bank account.  What 
do you think is *really* advisable?  

(Fuel lines, of course, go without saying.  They've already been 
in there for almost ten years again.  Points and plugs also go 
without saying.  I'd like to know about the deeper stuff inside 
the engine, not the peripherals.)

The engine in question has run approx. 50k miles, has never been
opened as far as I can tell, and starts and runs exceptionally
well.  The bus it's in is intended for moderate fair-weather use,
no high speeds, no heavy loads, but long distances (well, for 
German values of "long": couple hundred kilometres at most),
and maybe 5k miles a year, if that.  I don't want to rip this 
thing apart next year again, but I don't expect another 10 years 
of trouble-free service either, and I'm aware that the next
overhaul will have to go way deeper than this one.

Being jobless, I have to operate on a tight budget.  Time, OTOH,
is not an issue.  (I'm even planning to do the Hoover thing and
paint my cylinders flat black for enhanced heat dissipation.)
And I'm *not* going to split the case unless it's absolutely
unavoidable.

Thanks for reading all this.  Any recommendations are welcome.  

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik.
-- 
"Life is like a box of chocolates.
 You never know what you get."  -- Forrest Gump
"Life is like a box of tissues.
 You never know when you run out."  -- Unknown
