From: Anton Ross <antonross(-at-)mac.com>
Date: Sat, 4 Jun 2005 10:24:32 -0400
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] What to do while engine is apart?

Erik,

Going through this myself right now. Our 69 Westy Hardtop had a few  
"minor" oil leaks which we decided to hunt down and fix. AND...as  
soon as we started looking, we kept finding new things to fix. LOTS  
of new things to fix. LOTS and LOTS!

<grin>

Eventually we tore the motor down to pretty much just the case, and  
found a scored cylinder wall, two scorched pistons, one SERIOUSLY  
damaged head, a busted oil cooler mounting flange, the incorrect type  
of tin for the front of the motor, and more.

After much deliberation, we went the new MexiMotor route...got it  
shipped down, and started putting it in last Sunday. It was going to  
be almost as expensive to properly rebuild the old one as just buying  
a new one with a warranty. We also went with a Type 4 oil cooler at  
the recommendation of EVERYONE. Requires a different tin than a stock  
1600, of course. Bought a few other tune-up parts and such, but  
basically we're building a new motor.

That being said, we found we were missing three small, but  
significant parts.

The new MexiMotors do NOT come with the dizzy drive gear installed  
(at least ours didn't.). Make sure you have a new one, or have pulled  
your old one.

The gasket set we bought was very complete, save for a 34 PICT carb  
gasket. 10 cents worth of material you MUST have.

Lastly, somehow we lost the push rod for our fuel pump. (It was the  
only part we lost.) Needed a new one.

Granted, we were trying to do this on a budget as well, but they way  
I figure, we have a new motor for the same amount of money we'd have  
spent on 3 car payments for

some generic new auto.

Your mileage may vary, of course. I am happy with decision we made,  
since it is peace of mind, and I know the history of this motor from  
day one. You can bet the oil will get changed every 2K miles, and  
valves adjusted accordingly.

So...

69 Westy Hardtop - $1,500
New MexiMotor - $1,400.
Additional Parts - $200
Peace of mind - PRICELESS.



On May 14, 2005, at 9:00 AM, Erik Meltzer wrote:

> Hi Volks!
>
> I'm planning to dismantle my '72 panel van's Type 1, 1600cc engine
> to fix its oil leaks.  A set of gaskets, a set of pushrod tubes,
> and an oil seal for the crankshaft where it meets the belt pulley
> are already purchased.
