Date: Sun, 15 May 2005 14:15:13 -0700
From: "Mike Begley" <spam(-at-)hell.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] AIRS rescue---Engine runs fine, but dies when the

> Kudos for lending a hand to someone in need. A lot of people
> are thankful for your willingness to lend a hand; it's
> something that makes the bus community special.

Well, I suppose I'm just building up some good karma points for my
inevitable on-the-road breakdown.  :)  It's been a fun experience,
actually.  I had a good interview with a major Seattle-area software
company last week and it's down to them checking my references, so this
whole thing has been a good way to distract me from just waiting around
for that to come through.  We've swapped trip stories, she's cooked up
some vegan curries, and overall been a low-impact guest[1].

> As for your mechanic's comment: there are no "test machines"
> required to troubleshoot L-Jet Fuel injection. All you need
> is the following common and inexpensive tools:

I was more-or-less paraphrasing the mechanic.  Essentially he just wants
to get the bus into the shop where he has access to everything he will
need.  He's been great for me with my bus over the past year, and was
highly recommended to me by other folks when I got my bus.  The fact
that his shop is a block away from my house just makes it that much more
convienent.

> Did anyone verify fuel pressure when the engine bogs down on
> a hill??
> If the problem only happens on a hill or under load it will
> be difficult to resolve in a shop.

It seems to correlate to when we were going uphill, even fairly slight
hills.  But at this point it's hard to say, since we're having no
success in getting the engine going at all.

-m

[1] well, not counting the moment when she didn't get a fuel line
properly clamped while trying to replace the fuel pump, and dumped half
a gallon of gasoline on her face before she could get the clamp back on.
See earlier email mentioning me learning new canadian swear words.  I
think ears burned for a three block radius.
