From: "Casting Fool" <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>
To: "Type 2 List" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 6 Oct 2004 09:03:00 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2]how to clean up used fridge/sink

From: "ChaMoon" <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
> ... what would be the safest way to clean it out/sanitize it...

Household bleach can be used for disinfecting drinking containers, as can
industrial strength "bleach" like that used in water treatment plants
(household stuff is a 5.25% solution, the other is 12.5 to 15%).

Rinsing will remove most if not all of the residue left by the bleach.  I
usually leave the container overnight, then rinse and wash with dish
detergent.

If the tank is "clean" like you described, I'd add a cap of household bleach
for every gallon of water that the container would hold, leave overnight and
rinse thoroughly the next day.  I've never heard or read that the scent in
the bleach will affect the outcome, but I'd probably stay away from the
newer scented stuff and use the plain ol' bleach.

If you're not sure what may have been run through the tank by the PO, then
rinse thoroughly with water before you add the bleach for disinfecting!
Some chemicals will react with bleach.  Chlorine gas makes it difficult to
breath, trust me on this one...

Incidentally, for drinking water...

We used either 1 disinfectant tab, 2 drops of household chlorine (5.25%
chlorine), or 3 drops of tincture of iodine in a quart of water (standard
canteen) when I was in the service.  Double the tabs or drops for cloudy
water.  You added the tab or drops, shook the canteen for maybe 1-2 minutes,
waited 30 minutes and drank.

Boiling for 3-5 minutes will do the trick, too (some say 1 minute at a
rolling boil).  You can add charcoal (from the fire used to boil the water)
to remove any disagreeable colors from the water.  Then agitate it to aerate
and restore taste or add a small pinch of salt.

For dirty water, you'd filter it through several layers of cloth first.
Incidentally, radioactive fallout is dirt and can be removed by filtering.

I've still got some survival manuals, one from the service (dated 1969),
another by W.K. Merrill (1979, which is probably the best one ever printed),
and a few related others.

TTFN - Mike Jackson
`77 Bay, "Giacomo"
Casting Fool & Son
Augusta, GA  USA
http://www.cfnson.com
