Date: Fri, 10 Sep 2004 10:19:13 -0700
From: Nik Wiman <nik(-at-)tfrec.wsu.edu>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: I could build a better Riviera than Riviera

Since its is Fri, I thought I would give a report on my summer work
revamping9 my 80 Riviera, since I9m taking her on an extended trip to
Vancouver Island after spending all summer in the garage.  Major surgery:
Wow, she has a beautiful body, nice original orange paint, no body rust, ran
well on rebuilt original TIV FI motor (80K total), one previous owner.  Not
knowing anything about buses I took the bait.  Didn9t know it was a Riviera
until later.  The top was badly cracked, beyond repair.  Bought a moldy
Westy top in W Oregon.  Spent weeks sanding, cleaning and gelcoating.  When
I got the Riviera top off, I couldn9t believe how shotty the construction
was.  Opened a whole new can of worms.  They used crappy wood for supporting
the bed, which was in splinters! They screwed up quite a few drill holes,
then redrilled them 1/2 an inch away!  Man these guys must have been in a
hurry.  Of course the mistake holes had rust around them.  Fixed with
POR-15.   The hole in the roof was not straight!  What a butcher job, their
cut was like one of those road signs warning of sharp curves ahead!
Straightened it with a jigsaw and grinder.  The holes that hold the panels
and trim were also badly drilled, and unevenly spaced.  Got the Westy top
on, very difficult procedure.  Had to coat the brackets on the luggage rack
with black grease then put it on to figure out where the holes go over the
cab.  That worked well, and I was happy.  Got everything lined up, sealed
and new canvas (this is a small miracle).  Wow, it looks so much better.  A
functional, sealed pop-top, blinding white.  Mechanical work:  All new fuel
hoses, new fuel pump, new pressure regulator, bye bye EGR, bye bye Catalytic
converter, new exhaust manifold (whew, not EMPI) with Thunderbird muffler,
all engine tin cleaned and painted, rethreaded the oil plug, changed the
transmission oil, cleaned and rebooted the shift coupler, scored some chrome
bumpers, POR-159ed the propane tank and guard, new pressure regulator, new
plugs, points, installed the Bosch starter relay, new engine seal, sewed new
curtains, replaced shag carpet, re-upholsterd Z-bed, installed GL seats
w/armrests.  Whew, I9m pooped.  I learned a ton, and I9m finally feeling
warm and fuzzy about my bus.  Not your stock Westy, which I plan on owning
someday, but a fully functional AC VW camper.  It took a lot of
determination, a lot of beer, a lot of money, and of course some great
advice.   She9s running like a champ.  I9m off to the land of salmon and
brown bears with my woman, one Chesapeake Bay retriever and Ruby the labish
dog.  See you on the road! -Nik
