Date: Sat, 11 Sep 2004 16:25:04 -0500
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com>
Subject: New Head - bus won't run - running out of time

I'm loosing a battle with time and my bus.  Here's a quick recap.

68' Kombi, stock 1600cc single port with Petronix.  Burnt the #1 intake 
valve.  Replaced the head.  Put the engine back in.  Tried to fire it up, 
but it sounded like it was running on 2 cyls.  0 compression on #1 and 
#2.  Realized I didn't torque the heads properly (didn't notice my torque 
wrench read ft-inches instead of ft-lbs).  Pulled the engine, torqued the 
heads, installed the engine.  When I put the rocker arm assembly back on 
the #1 intake spring rested against the rocker arm even when the adjustment 
screw was backed all the way out.  Double checked the push rod, and then 
added a shim to the rocker arm assembly and re-installed.  Set the 
valves.  Now it doesn't appear close to starting.  Good compression on all 
cyls. (>=95).  Plugs are getting spark.

Tonight I'm going to clean and regap the original plugs and put them in 
just in case my FLAPS gave me the wrong plugs.  If that doesn't work I'm 
going to replace the Petronix with points just in case the Petronix was 
messed up during my mechanical follies.

If that doesn't work I'm pretty much stumped.  One thing to note, the gas 
gage doesn't work any more (I did add 2 gallons to the tank, so I believe I 
have gas).

The problem is I'm moving and I need to get this thing running.  If I hosed 
this engine, I'm not sure I have the time to rebuild it.  That means 
getting a working engine and swapping.  I'm up for that, I actually think I 
can put an engine in w/o breaking it.  But I'm in Chicago w/no way to 
transport an engine.  I'd be willing to rent a truck for something within 
1/2 days drive.

I guess my questions are

1.  Does anyone have suggestions as to what I should look at next?

and

2.  Does anyone have a working upright engine that they'd sell me?

Thanks in advance.

Greg U
