Date: Sat, 11 Sep 2004 17:44:40 -0500
From: Faster-Laster <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>
To: Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] New Head - bus won't run - running out of time

On Sat, Sep 11, 2004 at 04:25:04PM -0500, Gregory Urban wrote:
> 68' Kombi, stock 1600cc single port with Petronix.  Burnt the #1 intake 
> valve.  Replaced the head.  Put the engine back in.  Tried to fire it up, 
> but it sounded like it was running on 2 cyls.  0 compression on #1 and 
> #2.  Realized I didn't torque the heads properly (didn't notice my torque 
> wrench read ft-inches instead of ft-lbs).  Pulled the engine, torqued the 
> heads, installed the engine.  When I put the rocker arm assembly back on 
> the #1 intake spring rested against the rocker arm even when the adjustment 
> screw was backed all the way out.  Double checked the push rod, and then 
> added a shim to the rocker arm assembly and re-installed.  Set the 
> valves.  Now it doesn't appear close to starting.  Good compression on all 
> cyls. (>=95).  Plugs are getting spark.

I would be willing to bet that the old head you took off and the new
head have different combustion chamber cuts. or the rockers are
located a bit closer to the head in the new head. I know its a bit
late now, but just swaping out heads on one side isn't the greatest
thing for engine reliability, if mis matched it can cause a real out
of balance situation and shorten the life, now about the non start

First triple check that you have the plug wires connected correctly,
since you have spark, chances are except for the possibilty of having
the wires out of order you are ok there. Honestly I would pull off all
of the wires, and start from there. It will make you think through the
entire process again and not just agree with any mistakes you made.
Crank the engine for a bit, does the exhaust smell like gas? if so
that is a plus, but if not look for the obvious things. A non
connected (or malfunctioning) fuel solenoid, pluged fuel line to the
carb. You can usually determine this by looking down the throat of the
carb and opening it all the way. If functioning and full of gas, the
accel pump should squirt a small spray of gasoline into the manifold,
which you can see. good luck and update us with any addition findings.

-- 
Faster-Laster                                  jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com
1979 Sportsmofakia 2000cc                        www.fasterlaster.com
1966 Westfalia SO-42 "Butch"
