Date: Sun, 12 Sep 2004 12:34:17 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Update on my 73

Well, while I'm sitting here waiting for a call from bottomend about
heading to LA to help some hippies, I thought I'd put together how my
bus is doing:

I'd been letting the mechanicals slide a bit lately due to both heat
and I'm trying to get the interior done. So it was running kinda
poopy...

Turned out to be the points. They'll hold for a little while until I
get some of the correct dizzy lube and a new set of points.

After installing a new Empi muffler and finless type 4 heat
exchangers, the carb adjustments went wacky. I wanted to get the
timing and points ok before messing with the carbs. Today I finally
dug in and set them right. Amazing how it only takes 10 minutes to
adjust them, and makes SUCH a difference in idle and deceleration.

Timing it turned out was set to 0 instead of 7.5 BTDC. I have no idea
how that happened, but probably points related. I can cruise at 75 on
the fwy again now and still have pedal to go. That was making me
nervous... heh

I still haven't revisited my rear brakes since the bus rocked off the
jackstands with me under it. I was going to do them today, but this LA
thing is taking priority. The fronts are strong so I'll be ok. I just
don't like leaving one side of the rears soaked in fluid.

I have new gas-a-just shocks for the rear waiting for me to put on. I
did a quick check to see if I could easily undo the bolts. Nope. Even
with the leverage of my bigass 19mm wrench I couldn't make the bolts
budge. It's gonna take some serious effort to get them apart without
distroying them. Planned for the next cool weekend.

I picked up a can of parts dip to start rebuilding a set of carbs.
Time to check the throttle shafts and see which are most rebuildable
without having to press in bushings.

The oil leaks are seriously MINOR. Woot!!! I'm losing less than a
quart per oil change! Closer to 1/2 quart. Heck, that's no worse than
my Volvo.

I popped the door panels off to recover. Driver's side was in pieces.
Grrr... Pass side was solid. I broke out the Elmer's Craft Bond to
glue the fabric on. Had it nice and tight, everything looking good.
Except for the fact that the next day the fabric had pulled off. And
the glue was still tacky. Sigh. Need to go check out better adjesives
now.

I found a local source for 5" foam that was cheaper than anything I
could find online. Under $100 for enough for the bed / bench and the
rear cushion. Added to budget.

What needs to still be done that isn't budgeted yet? Front shocks,
front tires, ball joints, steering box, and windshield. Not counting
body work of course.

-- 
Don Tuleja
1973 WasaWestyNowaHiTop
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
