Date: Sun, 9 Oct 2005 15:50:15 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: mattroberds(-at-)cox.net, aufever(-at-)prodigy.net
Subject: 70 turn signal switch wanted??

ok, i've managed to make a best guestimate that the t/s switch has an 
internal short or stray wire strand somewhere; for a little while, i 
was getting bright white light and smoke from the  the 
green/white/black wire where it ends in a brass contact INSIDE the 
switch... it is possible that something was bridging that contact and 
the little wiper that makes the left/right selection when you move 
the t/s lever. this g/w/blk wire comes ->from<- terminal 49a on the 
emergency flasher switch ->to<- term 54 on the switch. this wire also 
connects to blue wire 49a on the flsher relay box.

anyways, i got the thing to stop blazing when the ignition key is on, 
but i still have signal wonkiness: sometimes the right rear, and 
sometimes the right rear light won't flash when i activate the t/s 
lever. also, if i tilt the lever assembly just right, i  still get 
the problem of hearing the flasher relay clicking as if i have 
signalled for a turn, or have the hazards on.  when this happens, the 
turn signal arrows on the dash do NOT light up, nor do the outside 
lights, or the e-flasher knob.  so i ASSUME that something in the t/s 
switch is feeding power straight thru the switch into the flasher 
relay when a wire or metal peice flexes just so.  i also could be 
wrong.

i haven't tried another e-flasher knob and switch yet, but i'll do 
that first, as i should have a few around... this should eliminate it 
as a suspect.

in fact, i might need to replace it anyways: for a long time, 
whenever i hit the brakes, a faint yet distinct -tink- would come 
from the fuse box area; i figured out it was the relay can making the 
noise.  this makes no sense, as the brake lights and turn signals are 
totally seperate - except for where the brake switch wires enter the 
e-flasher switch!  hmm... so  maybe something is buggered in there 
after all, even tho the switch makes the lights flash as advertised. 
i'll replace it tonight.

anyways, my spare t/s switch of COURSE has 2 wires broken on it, an 
so i'd like to line up a spare spare. good luck, huh?   this bus was 
made on october 10, 1969, so it would really like a new switch for 
its birthday tomorrow!  it also means 68-69 and 71+ switches prolly 
won't work. karl, do you know what the cut-off dates are?
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
