Date: Sun, 09 Oct 2005 16:15:55 -0700 (Pacific Daylight Time)
From: Courtney Hook <courtneyhook(-at-)shaw.ca>
To: type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] new rings with used cylinders

-------Original Message-------

 

From: Courtney Hook

Date: 10/09/05 16:15:21

To: Bronsema Max

Subject: Re: [T2] new rings with used cylinders

 

I don't agree you should buy all new pistons and cylinders. I've used

re-honed cylinders and new rings in high performance engines with no grief.

Sometimes I think people just like to get too anal about things. Make sure

it's a LIGHT rehoning to just break the glaze, that's all you have to do.

Too far and you'll end up with piston slap due to too much clearance. You

can even use some Wet and Dry 200 grit sandpaper and carefully remove the

glaze by hand, but make sure you do it as evenly as possible and not wear a

groove in the cylinder. Do it round and round, not up and down from top to

bottom. 45 deg. is even better. OR go buy a cheap hone from China and use it

to deglaze the cylinders, again at a 45 deg. angle in your drill.

Not everyone is Rockefeller, so used cylinders are fine as long as they're

not WAY to worn. Mike them with an inside micrometer. Have fun. :-)

 

-------Original Message-------

 

From: Bronsema, Max

Date: 10/09/05 14:48:57

To: type2(-at-)type2.com

Subject: [T2] new rings with used cylinders

 

Hi everyone,

 

 

 

During the past couple of weeks, I have disassembled my 1600dp to have

the machine shop take care of some issues for me. My cylinders besides

being dirty outside look great on the inside, no scoring or scuffing. I

realize I should buy all new cylinders and pistons but I lack the monies

to take care of that. From the advice of a fellow list member, I am

advised to re-ring the pistons. Putting new rings on the pistons while

using the old cylinders makes me wonder if the cylinders should be

honed. The compression was fine when I pulled the engine and the pistons

look swell as well. The question is, do I have the machine shop hone the

cylinders or do I just put the new rings on and go with the cylinders

sans machine shop? I have looked through the archives and cannot find a

definitive answer, they range from just use everything as it was pulled

to buy everything new, with everything in between.

 

 

 

Thank you for the input,

 

 

 

Max Bronsema

 

 


-- 
No virus found in this outgoing message.
Checked by AVG Anti-Virus.
Version: 7.0.344 / Virus Database: 267.11.10/119 - Release Date: 10/4/05
