From: Nurofiz(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 15 Feb 2003 11:04:59 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Sad, sad day for Lurch

Kind listfolk,

I last posted about a month ago, to wit:

<SNIP>

>Lurch died this morning.

>It was 9 degrees out and I was going to run an errand.  Lurch started OK,
but after about five seconds, it quit suddenly. 
>After that, it would just barely crank.  Hmmm....

>Hooked up the battery charger to warm up the battery and give it a full
charge and then went in my other car to do the morning chores.

>Came back and it would just barely crank.  I put a heat source under the
engine to warmitup (500W halogen work light). 
>Aftet an hour or so of that I tried to start it - it would just barely
crank. 
>Got out the socket wrench and tried to turn it over by hand using the
generator pulley.

>Not a freewheeling puppy any more.

>I fear that something dire has happened to the internals -
crankshaft/camshaft/bearings.  It appears that a complete teardown is
inevitable. 
>The Dead o' Winter Campout is not in my future. 
>The rebuild never ran just right.  It had lousy MPG (11-14), and idled
poorly/noisily (stuck valve?)

<SNIP>

Two of the four responses I got pointed to the possibility of a seized
bearing.

I had Lurch towed to the guy who rebuilt the engine last.   After about two
weeks (yesterday), I went out to look at things.

#1 main bearing had seized.
All the cylinders/jugs showed heat damage (scored cylinders/piston skirts and
bluish discoloration of the jugs).
The case, crank, cam (one-piece), and lifters were all OK.
The bearings were scored.

I did a tune-up and oil change four times since the rebuild.
I had filings in the oil, but never excessively (I failed to test them for
ferrousness).
The spark plugs were always black!   There was still carbon on the pistons,
but it was flaking off.
I did switch carbs from a 31 PICT 3 to a 34 PICT 4 (?) about a thousand miles
before this calamity.
The 009 distributor was always set at 28 degrees at 3000 RPM (about 7.5 at
idle).

The rebuilder suggested that I was either too lean are too retarded (the
timing).   He suggested timing it to 30 degrees or more.

I monitor this thing to the nines.   RPM, oil press., oil temp., head temp.,
amps and volts, and never did any of these parameters go to extremes.
I realize that absolute values aren't much due to inaccuracy, but relative
values have been peachy through several engines.

Mr. Mills, do you want to meet in Harriman to look at this thing with me?

Chris Slaymaker
Knoxville, TN
1971 Westy  "Lurch"
"...at least I'm enjoying the ride."  <-was   :=[
