Date: Sat, 15 Feb 2003 10:45:54 -0600
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: Mike <jester(-at-)cfnson.com>, Type 2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] VW Trends follies

>So, fellow busologists, should I use synth in my `77 bus?

Once upon a time snth would reject heat and your engine might now run as 
cool as it could with dino oil.

Now synth does as good a job at absorbing heat as juice of dinosaur.

If you have a Type I you're still going to be needing to change the oil 
often b/c of the lack of filter and thus throwing alot of expensive oil 
away often.

If you have a Type I or Type IV engine then maybe you can extend you oil 
change interval to help offset the cost.

I run synth in our bus but frankly unless you are really hard on your oil 
then there is probably not much reason to run synth. Synth does resist high 
temp breakdown better and it will last longer (longer oil change intervals).

However in my Honda that is $20 just for oil ($5 a quart / 4 quarts) plus a 
filter.

It can lead to numerous leaks b/c it can wash away internal engine buildup 
(sludge) that has kept your seals from leaking. I have also heard it 
explained as synth having smaller molecules (shorter chemical/molecular 
chains) that can find their way out of seals easier. My Honda motorcycle 
and my bus both weep oil more now with synth - same oil weights as before.

So there is my experiences - you decide for yourself. I'm using it as a 
test to see how far my engines will go. The Type IV is coming out in favor 
of a Corvair so those internals will go in my Beetle. The Honda 
moto-chickle is just a high mileage beast that I want to preserve. The 
Honda CR-V I bought new and have used synth since new so I want to see what 
it might do for me.

FWIW I saw my previous Honda Accord in town. Present owner has close to 
300K miles on the engine and it has never been opened up. Engine was ALWAYS 
run on Havoline dino oil with a Purulator or FRAM filter. I don't care for 
Frams these days but tend to like Purulators.

Oil changes were always done at 3K miles.

I think it is more about how you drive it (if the oil is changed regularly) 
than whether you use dino or synth.




Chris M. <"Busbodger" of "TEAM SLOWPOKE">
Cookeville, Tennessee

ICQ# 5944649
scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu

'78 VW Westfalia (67 HP -> that is...67 Hamster Power) - Dharma
'65 Beetle - Type IV powered
'99 CR-V AWD station wagon
'81 CB900 Custom moto-chickle
2.5 Corvair engines for my Trans-vair Conversion
