Date: Sun, 29 Feb 2004 11:42:01 -0800 (PST)
From: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: moon(-at-)crosslink.net, Javabus(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: 009

>Muir recommends using a 009 when possible. 

Muir died in the early 70's.  He stated that a
mechanical advance dizzy is better than a vacuum
advance dizzy.  He's talking about the vacuum
dizzies that he knew, the vacuum only models of
60's and very early 70's model.  The later model
"vacuum" dizzies were DUAL ADVANCE, both vacuum
AND CENTRIFUGAL, to address the problems that
Muir noted.  

As Muir notes, a vacuum only dizzy isn't optimal
because you need more advance at higher rpm.  But
a corrollary is that side of that a centrifugal
only dizzy isn't good because you need more
advance under when you mash the acccelerator at
low rpm (higher vacuum).    Neither the vacuum
only or centrifual only dizzy can address both.  

The VW rags hype these centrigual only dizzies,
009 and 050 in particular, because that's what
the advertisers sell... and the zit-face kids
love the chromed 009's with clear or colored
caps.  So super sano!!!!

009 is good for high rpm use only.  Good enough
if you drag race beetles, but entirely the wrong
setup for a bus.  It has insufficient advance
prior at low to middle rpm, gives poor mileage,
and causes a severe throttle lag... that deadspot
that you feel when you push the gas but nothing
happens, until the dizzy catches up.  It's
probably better than a vacuum only dizzy, but a
rebuilt stock dual advance dizzy will give
noticeably better gas mileage and way, Way, WAY
better driveability.  

The funny thing is that every jackleg "VW
mechanic" around will tell you to yank the stock
dizzy off and put on a 009 whenever the mechanic
can't figure out why the vacuum advance isn't
working.  But a stock dizzy with a bum vacuum
biscuit still has a similar curve to that new 009
the clown is selling you.  However, if you insist
on a 009, I'll sell you my new 009 as soon as I
get a rebuilt dual advance dizzy from Bus Depot. 



=====
Nemo, the Bus Captain
1970 Westfakia  
http://www.geocities.com/nemobuscaptain/index.html

Working and playing in the Sonoran Desert, Arizona  
http://www.nps.gov/orpi/
http://southwest.fws.gov/refuges/arizona/cabeza.html
