Date: Tue, 2 Mar 2004 11:39:40 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Push starting my Van does not work...

Chris:

In addition to what Ted said WRT adding the hot start relay, it may also
be time to give some consideration to replacing the electrical portion
of the ignite switch switch too.  If it's an OE installed deal, that
poor switchy-poo has been doing it's thang since Carter was in office,
so I'll leave you to do the math how many times the switch contacts have
been asked to that voo-doo that they do...

I replace them on GP as soon as I get a new-to-me VeeWee so it's one
less potential "weak link" in the system - while not as much as a
starter, they are a bit more than the HSR.  Understand that all the
parts replacement in the world is not going to help, if the very switch
innards theirselves are not making good clean contacts.  Another clue
that it's time for replacement is if your key won't "snap back"
automatically from the "ignite" position to the "run" position, or if
you can cycle it from the "run" position into the "ignite" position -
it's "supposed" to be a non-repeatable cycle.  If your '79 has the
"plug-and-play" style of electrical portion, it should be a considerably
easier item to remove and replace than the earlier styles which
progressed from a "hard-wired" method of integration into the system, to
a hybrid style between the earliest configuration/latest configuration,
and finally the full-on "plug-and-play" style.  Those who have done this
will know what I'm scribbling about ;-)

Understand that even replacing an old worn one with a new one is no
guarantee of perfect motoring bliss though...  I replaced the one on my
'72 Westy with a new manufacture switch and it would tend to not make
contact on occasion in warmer weather, but it never did it for the first
start of the day.  Eventually it got to be pretty regular about it for
the afternoon starts and the switch was given it's pink slip, severance
package and a hearty fare-thee-well.  Trouble free and happy driving now
:-)

Jim Hayden
T4 powered Buses, a 914 and a Ghia <-- can't win 'em all
www.savethebays.org


E-MAIL CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE:  The contents of this e-mail message and any
attachments are intended solely for the
addressee(s) and may contain confidential and/or legally privileged
information. If you are not the
intended recipient of this message or if this message has been addressed to
you in error, please
immediately alert the sender by reply e-mail and then delete this message and
any attachments. If you
are not the intended recipient, you are notified that any use, dissemination,
distribution, copying, or
storage of this message or any attachment is strictly prohibited.
