Date: Wed, 28 May 2003 16:17:17 -0700
From: Nicholas Palmer <nicholas(-at-)slackers.net>
To: B-rad Johnson <dentistbrad4(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] EFI maybe??

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----
Hash: SHA1

B-rad Johnson wrote:

| I bought a 78 project bus (2.0L EFI) that doesn't run and I need some 
advice on the EFI.
|
| The bus won't start, but turns over fine, is sparking at all plugs and 
has compression.  It sat for a while so I drained the gas and changed 
the fuel lines and now I'm wondering if the reason it won't start is 
because the fuel injectors are plugged.  What is the easiest way to 
diagnos the problem with the EFI or is there some sensor that I don't 
know about that would prevent the bus from starting???

There are many possibilities. I would start with checking to make sure 
you have proper pressure using a mechanical pressure gauger. No 
pressure, no gas, no start. To verify that your injectors are opening 
you can use a mechanics stethoscope and listen for a 
click-click-clicking. This will at least ensure that the computer is 
opening them.

If they are opening, then it is more likely they are clogged then 
anything else, so pull them and test. Make sure to use a new small and 
large gasket on the injector when you put it back. Also, if you did not 
replace the pigtail that goes from the injector to the fuel rail while 
you where doing the line do that now. Mine cracked while I was driving. 
I was lucky it didn't start a fire.

There are lots of electrical connections that could be causing the 
problem as well, since there is a lot more wiring that goes with the EFI 
then with  a carb. Check the ground for the system under the left intake 
and make sure it is clean and tight. Check the temp sensors, both the 
one screwed into the head near #3 spark plug, and the one in the AFM to 
make sure they are in spec. Check that the voltage while cranking is at 
least 10 volts. Low voltage and the computer won't turn on properly.

I would also for sure change the oil if you have not done so already, 
and drain out the old gas and replace it with new. Nothing like old gas 
to gum up the works.

Let me know if none of this helps and I will make still more suggestions.

- -Nick
'77 Rivera
'71 Project
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----
Version: GnuPG v1.2.1 (GNU/Linux)
Comment: Using GnuPG with Mozilla - http://enigmail.mozdev.org

iD8DBQE+1UN5R42/Somtp0QRAqfPAJ41pmyteUcBsYf4aUfE/d3reN4dWgCfbNNm
YrwJ7Q9bn0DtCOfEBtGYtq4=
=n0RA
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----
