Date: Wed, 28 May 2003 20:17:24 -0400
From: Jamie <jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net>
To: Dan Soiney <soineydg(-at-)milwaukee.k12.wi.us>
Subject: Re: [T2] Alternator

Dan Soiney wrote:
 > The alternator light has started to come on pretty steady at high engine
> speeds.  The belt is OK.  I'm guessing it's alternator time, any other ideas
> before I go buy one?

Hi Dan

There is other things in the circuit that can cause this problem. When the light
comes on, it is because the voltage is low .... this can be caused by a bad
connections etc.

you can check the connections at the Alternator, and the regulator including the
body ground, [the regulator must be grounded to provide the return path for the
field circuit] and battery terminals, ignition switch terminal 15 specifically
black wire ,and fuse S12 ,ground strap.
Definition of check,,, take apart, scratch clean with wire brush, tighten ....
you can't see electricity. so you can't see a high resistance connection, you
have to make sure they are clean and tight.

put your battery on charge until back to ~13 volts,
The first step I do,, when I want to test away from my proper instruments, i.e.
the side of the road... is hot wire the regulator... so if you have an external
regulator on the firewall.. you can apply 12v to the Df terminal,,, green wire
in the connector.

This is done with the engine running....
You need a voltmeter/testlight probe or a nail or something that will push into
the connector, or thru the wire insulation... and attach the other end to the
battery + pos terminal 
If all things are good except the regulator,,, you will hear the engine RPM's
drop off... as that alternator is going to try and put out FULL power, as you
are "full" fielding it.
only do this momentarily, the alternator is not rated for FULL out put for any
length of time.

That test will tell you the alternator is working, the belt is tight, and the
connections between the reg and the alt are ok.  If the RPM drop off, and the
belt doesn't squeal

 if the light still comes on....or if your lost at this point,, I usually
recommend taking it to an auto electric place and paying for a diagnostic
check... some still do it free,, 

They can check voltage and current output of both your alternator, and condition
of your battery because you have CLEANED all the connections I mention
previously, and charged the battery,... the test results will determine the
faulty component.


What causes alt light to come on....
 battery ...cell can become weak.. internal connections become loose, external
connections corroded
alternator can fail .. brushes... diodes....poor connections 

and THE most forgotten thing,, the GROUND return path is high resistance. Make
sure you have a ground strap to the engine or transmission.


Hope that helps

-- 
Jamie Rivers
Ontario Canada
