From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: "'kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com'" <kagelp(-at-)songs.sce.com>
Cc: "'type2(-at-)type2.com'" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 29 May 2003 12:08:41 -0500
Subject: Re: Junk / Parts

	Paul, Wonderful List, et al...

	My several farthings/pearls re Bone-yard Trannys and Other Such
Miscellany.

	I have been doing 'yarding as a way of life for well on 15 years
now, keeping a number of Type 3s, 914s and now buses alive with stuff pulled
from hulks.  I will offer up forthwith my take on the subject:  You NEED to
learn the cadaver rotation cycle of your favorite 'yard.  The local Pick Yer
Part in the SFV brings in the fresh meat (van and truck wise) every other
Saturday morning.  The following Sunday morning then becomes the IDEAL time
to give the pickings the once over.  OTOH, the nearby Aadlen Brothers
yard???  In the 15 years of "pickin' and grinnin'" over there, I have NEVER
figured out the fresh meat cycle, and no amount of conversation with the
cashiers has ever elucidated that fact.  Go figure...  some stuff has been
there for years (i.e. the half dozen Brit taxis in the back row), other
stuff comes in and out so fast you could wind up hurting yourself watching
it arrive/depart.

	There are crews of individuals who specialize in particular parts,
and ONLY those particular parts:  there is the infamous, and urban legendary
"Tranny Guy", there is the "Door Crew", the "Suspension Crew", the "Let's
Trash Westy Interiors for the Fugg of It Crew".  Learn to time your arrival
BEFORE the Crews get there - especially if you happen to be in the market
for a particular item.  But know this: YOU WILL NEVER BEAT THE "TRANNY GUY"!
He is jacked into the system the way mere mortals like us will never be,
because this is what he does for a living...

	Some other handy hints:  at least in SoCal, learn to speak enough
Spanish (if you don't habla already) to chit-chat with a favored cashier,
and ALWAYS drag your parts to him/her.  In many instances, you will walk out
with some legit freebies.  Other times, there may be several price options
on the register - and if you have "more favored customer" standing, guess
which price option will be selected?  If there is a legitimate mistake made
on a price selection, don't be afraid to call them out on it, but DO NOT
give them excreta about prices in general.  I recently found a very nice
front belly pan off a '72 or '73 bus - they wanted to charge me $75 for it,
because that's what I mistakenly called it, and they thought it was a
full-on, Bug-style belly pan.  I politely said "No, sorry, hijos de la
man-yana - not gonna pay $75 for a COVER!".  The cashier had some hurried
and furtive discussions with the next cashier and I was then promptly
charged $10 or $12 for it.

	Parting words of wisdom - small avian life forms have informed me
that the Ecology yards in SoCal do not allow the "Crews" entrance, but I
have no independent corroboration of that fact.  And finally, why in the
name of all that is good/decent, would anyone want to use a junkyard tranny
anyway?  Unless you are trying to beat a core charge, why bother?  And
consider EXACTLY how much time you are going to waste trying to beat the
"Tranny Guy"?  You won't, so just pay the core and support your local VW
tranny shop, so they will be there for you next time you need one...

	Livin' la Vida Loca at my fav bone-yard

	Jim Hayden
	'72 Weekender (now sportin' the 2260 T4 - Yee! Haw!)
	'73 Deluxe (with only a 2055 - yawn...)
	www.savethebays.org
