From: "Richard Kerr" <rich.kerr(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "vintagebus" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 21 Apr 2002 12:01:55 -0400
Subject: Re: new member 1967 deluxe..

Jason --

Congratulations from the owner of another '67 Deluxe, that doesn't look
anything near as good as yours!

Search the Type2.com archives for a brake master cylinder substitution; it
involves a spacer and some longer bolts. It's how many people upgrade
earlier buses to a dual-circuit master cylinder. My bus has a replacement
'67 MC, but it was installed back in the '80s when it cost less...

Changing the front shift bushing inside the front end of the front rod (this
is different than on earlier splits) will provide the greatest improvement
in shifting precision. While you are under there, you can also change the
front-most of the two bushings on the long shift rod that passes through the
tube. Crawl under the back of the bus ahead of the rear tires, look up and
you'll find the shift coupler. If the rubber looks solid, I'd say keep it --
there have been complaints about the quality of today's replacements. If
it's bad, buy your replacement carefully. Undo the rod from this coupler,
then go up front and remove the front rod to change the front bushing, clean
and lubricate. At this point, you can also slide the long rod forward
through its tube until its bushing appears. Don't rotate it -- keep its
alignment intact. You can check the bushing and replace it, if you want, for
the second-biggest improvement to precision. (Save replacing the rear shift
rod bushing until you ever have the engine and transmission both out -- you
have to pull the rod out the back of the bus to do this.) Re-tighten the
shift coupler and put on safety wires; also check the condition of the
rubber boots on both ends of the shift rod and the front of the
transmission.

I also use the inexpensive little "short shift" kit at the base of my
shifter. Having done all this, my shifting is no longer a mystical
experience.

Can't help with the safari/antenna thing -- you'll see all sorts of
variations on this in on-line pictures (check www.thesamba.com). Safari
windows are a liability in year-round "drivers" here in the Northeast...

Good luck!

-- Rich

----- Original Message -----
Date: Sat, 20 Apr 2002 17:30:49 -0400
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: "Jason W" <bugginmiami(-at-)hotmail.com>
Subject: new member 1967 deluxe..
Message-ID: <F2687ZcS4A6QlCWie550000220d(-at-)hotmail.com>

Hello there list, im new here, but been on vintagvw for years but just
recently acquired a reason to wander around these here parts.
http://members.aol.com/jcwfla/bus.jpg  is that reason!
Ok I bought the bus as a quasi project, its runs and drives (sorta) but sat
for a long time and needs lots of things.
Thing #1 - it needs a master cylinder. Ive changed these on bugs before and
thought nothing of it, until seeing that its 1 yr only and $195 at bus-boys!
Im sure the seller had a laugh.. i didnt imagine this was the case. Anyone
rebuild these? Its literally pouring fluid out of the shaft...
thing #2 - Needs shift bushings, sloppy (doesnt pop out of any gears tho),
one in the front, what about the coupler in the rear, where is it and how
hard to get to? (whole job..)?
thing #3 - has the safari windows and a stock antenna. How do i bend the
antenna to accomodate the safaris? should I take it to a machine/metal shop?
Just put it in a vise and overcompensate the bend to get it in the ballpark?
(it bends back).. any ideas?

I think thats the short list for now.. has a few valdez sized oil leaks too
but those i can resolve with a quick once over on the motor i
believe..thanks for any help, pmails fine if you can help me..

jasonw
miami,fla
57 rag, 67 dlx



