Date: Sat, 16 Jul 2005 07:46:07 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
From: "Chris M." <busbodger(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: MonkeyBoy <chris.gause(-at-)gmail.com>,  VW - Type 2 mailing list
Subject: Re: [T2] Harbor Freight Welders

You need a gas MIG welder. Flux-cored is not going to cut the mustard for body panels. Tha requires a larger diameter wire which requires more heat to melt and presto your bodywork is in trouble. 

You also want 220v power if you have access to it where you work. Gives the machine a higher duty cycle - means it can weld longer and higher. 

Beyond that take your choice. The prob with no-name imports is you MIGHT have trouble getting parts. I am working my way towards a good MIG welder after struggling with an import 120v flux-core welder. After extensive research I found that I wanted a Lincoln SP-175+ or the Hobart or Miller equivalent. You can get parts for these anywhere. Well worth the extra cash. It's a $500 machine. 

What I would do is compare the Lincoln SP-175+ to the Harbor Freight machines and visit the Hobart forum where there are great welder debates. An evening of reading ought to leave you PLENTY prepared to make some good choices. 

Compare the SP-175+ (or the Millermatic or the Hobart) to the HF welders and see how they stack up. For me the greater range of temps (my current welder has about 2.5 temps), great wire speed control (my current one is infinitely variable but tied to welder load I think - no instructions), and don't forget the duty cycle. When I exceed the duty cycle of my import, it shuts down and stays down. I usually weld with a fan blowing on it with the side panel off in increase my weld time. Duty cycle is the amount of time under load (full) that it will weld before overheating and shutting down. A BIG machine is going to weld more than you need to weld. A hobbyist machine like the basic ones might give you a minute or two before they need some rest. A beeter machine might still have a 10% duty cycle but it might also be more than you need and thus is perfect for your needs. The SP-175+ is that for me - capable of more than I need under most circumstances. 

Lastly price the welders at the local commerical (not retail) welding supply stores. You might find a great welder for the right price (or even a used welder) and make a "friend" at the same time who can show you some tricks and give you some answers. Service an all that. A retail store like Lowe's or Tractor Supply prob won't be able to do that at all. At least the ones here can't. They just sell stuff. Look up welding supply in the yellow pages. 

I've chosen here not to give you my final answer but to give you some info, some choices, and point you to some opinions so at the end of the day the final choice is yours but hopefully with my post you'll have the info to make yourself a good choice. Good luck!

Chris
'78 Westy 2,7L
Cookeville
