Date: Sat, 16 Jul 2005 09:50:56 -0400
From: "Joseph Ames Jr." <joe.ames(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Upcoming Road Test: Konis, Hankooks and Bar Harbor

Well, I finally had my set of Bus Depot Konis installed last week.

They are decadent.  In fact, I believe they would be outlawed in
Massachusetts because they are simply too indulgent.

The Konis replace a set of KYB Gas-A-Justs which actually worked on the old
setup w/Firestone 205/70R14 SUV tires....  But when I replaced those with
the B-D's 185R14C Hankooks, every little crosswind blew me into the next
lane.  Frankly, it was a terrifying experience and I have been driving Buses
since I was 16 yo, which is to say, a pretty long time!  While I haven't yet
driven in strong winds, there were some significant gusts yesterday and they
did not affect the Westy's trajectory in the slightest with the Konis.

The Hankooks main advantage so far is that they are very quiet.  So quiet
that the Westy is no louder than any other car I've ever driven.  It's no
more noisy than my T'reg, which is hard to believe, but whose fat Pirelli
Scorpions make one devil of a racket.

A few weeks earlier I had a local shop install new ball joints all around,
and also replace the steering arm bushings while he was at it.  Those did
not noticeably affect steering so far as I can tell, but the two ball joints
that were bad were just then wearing out.  They were not falling off the
trailing arms yet!  Also, the steering arm bushings were still in pretty
good condition after 27 years, a testament to the quality of the originals.

The real test will begin next week as my wife and I take the old girl to Bar
Harbor for an extended vacation.   For that trip, I hope to have
Aircooled.net's external oil cooler w/fan installed, but it is taking some
time to arrive.  But I do have an OE Westfalia tent I found on eBay and
can't wait to use that!!!

Joe
Bryn Mawr, Pa.
1978 Westfalia Deluxe in restoration
1994 Audi 100CS quattro -- still going strong (-at-) 190,000mi
2004 Touareg V8/Air Susp. Etc
