Date: Sat, 16 Jul 2005 11:07:55 -0400
From: "Joseph Ames Jr." <joe.ames(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "'Don Tuleja'" <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Upcoming Road Test: Konis, Hankooks and Bar Harbor

Don, I set them full-soft.

By way of background, I have a few years' experience with Koni red
adjustables.  I run them on my Audi 100CSq and my 5000Sq before it.  In my
100, they were full-hard but I backed off to 1/2 way and, while that is a
fun setting on those rare times I can open it up on a twisty road, it is
still too harsh to drink coffee without spilling it during bumps.  Coffee
everywhere! On my 5000, I ran them full-hard (with Nuespeed lowering
springs) and liked that setting at the time.  But with the disintegrating
roads in the mid-Atlantic corridor, and the subsequent construction, those
harsher settings just aren't worth it.

I wondered about the Hankooks, too.  I think it can be explained by their
stiffer sidewalls.  The Firestones, while supportive of the Bus's weight,
were much taller and softer than the Hankooks.  I imagine the combination of
tall, soft sidewall and firm shocks roughly equals less-tall, stiffer
sidewalls and softer shocks.  I had no fear of zesty cornering in the
KYB/Firestone setup.  With the KYB/Hankook mix, it was frightening.  (I
should note that I have 7/8" front and rear sway bars installed.)  The
Koni/Hankook combination seems stable enough but I need to put a few
thousand miles on them to tell for sure.

Joe


-----Original Message-----
From: Don Tuleja [mailto:durocshark(-at-)gmail.com]
Sent: Saturday, July 16, 2005 10:28 AM
To: joe.ames(-at-)verizon.net
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Upcoming Road Test: Konis, Hankooks and Bar Harbor


On 7/16/05, Joseph Ames Jr. <joe.ames(-at-)verizon.net> wrote:
> Well, I finally had my set of Bus Depot Konis installed last week.

What did you set yours to? I initially set mine to full firm in the
rear and half way (one full turn) in the front. Way too stiff.

I just walked in the door from adjusting them to full soft all around.
We'll see how that does.

A little side note: You can adjust them without removing them. Just
undo the bottom bolts/nuts, loosen the tops, slide the shocks off the
bottom and push all the way up. Then adjust making sure you keep the
shock vertical.

I'm surprised about the Hankooks. The way Ron and his customers raved
I expected better. Hmm... Maybe the ravers were just upgrading from
car tires that wallowed like a 71 Buick?

--
Don
