Date: Wed, 23 Feb 2011 22:14:23 -0500
From: Pete O <pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Vanagon List <vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM>, List - Type 2
Subject: 2011 7th Annual Bus BRRR at Pokagon State Park in Angola,

Hey, Volks!

We are busy at work last night and tonight chopping veggies for the
Jambalaya and getting stuff ready for the bus.  We will be heading out
Saturday morning to Pokagon State Park for Bus BRRR!  It has been an
old-fashioned winter here in northern Indiana with the 108' of snow fall
making it the 6th snowiest winter on record.  So, we have been pining for
the days under the sun out on the hills and trails with our bus brothers and
sisters, I'm here to tell ya!

This event started on just such a stretch of weather 7 years ago.  My sister
Lynn, said something like: I am so sick of this winter weather.  Let's just
start up the buses, get some electric heaters and go ride that crazy
tobaggan run at Pokagon!  A few adult beverages later, and a Buses by the
Beach tradition its born!  Weather forecast right now is now a pleasant high
of 32F and a low of 22F with a chance of flurries - in other words:  perfect
Bus BRRR weather!  So, pack up the bus, get the warm gear on and head out
for some bus fellowship and authentic New Orleans Jambalaya for a good
cause!

Here are the details one last time:

2011 7th Annual Bus BRRR at Pokagon State Park in Angola, Indiana!

February 26-27th, 2011

This fund raising charity event is hosted by Buses By the Beach. (
www.busesbythebeach.com) Bus BRRR is definitely for the true camping
enthusiast and a great use of a VW Bus!  Temperatures can and have dipped
below zero at night.  This doesn't stop the VW Bus diehards from coming out.
 This one night camp out is held on the last Saturday in February each year
at Beautiful Pokagon State Park in Angola, Indiana.  Each site includes an
electric hook-up so you can keep warm with an electric heater

This year, our Bus BRRR Staff will be cooking up ginormous pots of authentic
and delicious New Orleans Jambalaya! So, Leave those Crockpots at home and
hit some Jambalaya for a good cause!  Your $20.00 per bus donation will
include as much Jambalaya as you can eat, hot cider and help pay the park
for firewood for the bonfire.  Each dollar we raise is donated to our
favorite charity, the Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors.
(http://www.phoenix-society.org/)<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tleBGBS
SPRmTes72xMf_aCFd1DhS2APSmNptNf3Qenk/edit?hl=en>

It is always nice to come back from the Toboggan Runs and warm up next to
the giant Bonfire after spending some time on the 35-40mph (faster than your
average bus) dual refrigerated 1,780 ft. toboggan runs.  Always lots of
great Volks, music, conversation. Hot Jambalaya, hot cider and fun!   All
while supporting The Phoenix Society for Burn Survivors.  This may be your
year to win the  "Kozy as a Baked Potato" Award for the warmest looking
bus!

What you can expect at Bus BRRR:

Hot all-you-can-eat Jambalaya
Hot Cider
See old friends and make new ones!
Dual Refrigerated Toboggan Runs
Cool temperatures and a Roaring Bonfire
The famous Potawatomi Inn Brunch Sunday morning.
Clean, heated restrooms very near campsite (Campground #3)
Each site includes electric hook-ups



Some Costs Involved:

   - All-you-can-eat Jambalaya, Hot Cider and Firewood:  $20.00 per Bus
   - The always fashionable Buses by the Beach Hoodies -$30.00
   - Park Entrance Fee:  $5.00 Resident and $7.00 Non-Resident
   - Camping Fee (Includes Electric Hookup and Warm Bathrooms!): $17.34 per
   night
   - Toboggan Rental Fee:  $10.00 per hour  (Toboggan will fit 4 Volks) Cool
   Toboggan Video here:  www.tobogganrun.com
   - Sunday Brunch at the Potawatomi Inn.  $13.95 for adults  children ages
   4-10 - $.1.00 times their age



Some helpful tips:
Be sure to bring warm clothing for day and night.  A 1200 watt heater
(ceramic is best!) of some sort for the cold nights.  Some of our attendees
have fashioned or purchased Mylar or something similar for insulating the
pop top canvas.  This definitely helps to keep the heat in.  We have camped
at every Bus BRRR and have been warm in the bus with an electric heater down
to -5 below.  Almanac.com is predicting late February to be 1 degree above
the average of 25 degrees.  You may consider bringing some snow pants or
suit if you plan on using the toboggan run.  The park is really beautiful
under a light snowfall with buses parked here and there.   Alcohol is
permitted at the park at this time of year, but obnoxious drunks are never
welcome.  Due to the Emerald Ash Borer please leave your firewood at home.
We'll have plenty to keep the fire roaring.  If you have any questions about
Bus BRRR please email me at
pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com<https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tleBGBSSPRmTes72xM
f_aCFd1DhS2APSmNptNf3Qenk/edit?hl=en>.
Pete
'79 Westy "Aardvark"
'87 Westy "JoesVan"
WWW.Busesbythebeach.org <http://WWW.Busesbythebeach.com>
