Date: Thu, 24 Feb 2011 11:31:32 -0500 (EST)
From: accessys(-at-)smart.net
To: Joe Average <joeaverage(-at-)frontiernet.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: exhaust analysis - was: where is my fuel going...

On Thu, 24 Feb 2011, Joe Average wrote:

> I did the ignition tune up on my CR-V this weekend. New plugs (60K old), new 
> cap and rotor (214K old), same wires. Won back 4 mpg. Would a weak spark 
> really account for a 15 mpg drop? Just curious...

can't imagine getting back that much... has new cap and rotor and plugs 
that while fairly new 3000 miles they are carboned up

> Partially seized tranny bearing like in the differential? But then it would 
> be noisy, right?

a bearing that far out would be super hot, all my bearings are touchable 
after a drive.

> Plugged exhaust?

maybe too many holes but not plugged

> Massive air leaks in the tube running from the air meter to the engine?

checked and double checked

> Injection tuned very rich to make up for these vacuum leaks?

????

> Leaky EGR valve? I blocked mine off b/c I could not locate a new one.

mine is plugged also, but could check to make sure it is not leaking.


> Is the air meter and computer and sensors all matched? Not from different 
> versions of the VW EFI?

all matched.

> Tight crank or rod bearing clearances?

can spin engine by hand without anymore difficulty than previously can not 
"feel" any tight spots,  also wouldn't that cause engine to run hot.  if 
anything engine is running cool. (sign of overrich ??)

> Somebody up near Bob needs to offer Bob another engine to test with his bus.

I seriously don't think it is in the long block part of the engine, but 
somewhere in the stuff on the engine.


my next things to do not necessarily in order.

check cam/crank coordination.  are they properly installed
check valve clearances (they are hdy so just double checking)
check TDC lines up with TDC on crank pully and distributor
check compression
check vacuum
check vacuum advance on dizzy (seriously do not think this is problem)
check hoses once again to make sure they are tight and not leaking 
anywhere

bang head against wall...
pour something for headache.

Bob
