Date: Thu, 24 Feb 2011 20:10:07 -0700
From: Jonathan Stiles <misterstiles(-at-)gmail.com>
To: type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Accessys(-at-)smart.net" <Accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] exhaust analysis - was: where is my fuel going...

I have been following this from a distance. I have a couple of
suggestions. Forgive me if I am repeating.

7 mpg is well beyond the worse I have ever experienced in any model or
combination of engines in a bus. I tend to get a lot of the worst
carbureted and FI motors and none have pushed below 10mpg. 7mpg in a
FI bus is like, "whoa, what???". :)

That being said, are you sure beyond all reason you aren't leaking
fuel? I had one instance a customer only leaked fuel when driving at
speed. Turned out his filter wasn't secure and when the road draft
caught it, the filter was pulled down just enough to Create a pretty
substantial leak with very little odor since it was winter and cold at
the time. A perfect storm of sorts.

I also thought about over cooling. Is your thermostat functioning
properly? Cold motors drain tanks too, but typically not that much.

The other thing to consider is if your cold start valve is stuck wide
open. That little bugger will drain a tank fast. I have seen them
intermittent which is even more frustrating. Test it of course then
you can clean it up, and then soak it in some injector cleaner for a
few hours. Usually the symptoms of a sticky CSV is the bus will start
and act normally. But before the motor is warmed up, like when you
stop to grab something at the corner store, it won't start and it
floods. And CSV that is stuck wide open all the time will have
symptoms of flooding when trying to start the bus at any temperature
and the bus won't start.

So if there is no leak anywhere and if your bus is really throwing
down those mileage figures...it Certainly is the richness. Symptoms
(restated im sure)' it should barely run when warm, have no power and
would be fouling plugs like crazy. There would also be a distinct fuel
rich odor at idle and you would see a very visible cloud of unburnt
fuel when you rev the engine. The fuel would also spit all over your
hand if you hold it in front of the tailpipe when revving. Also if you
can crank up the timing to ludicrous levels without pinging, it is
very rich.

That's all I have to say about that. Also, I really don't think it is
the spark unless the negative side of the coil is firing the injectors
100% of the time so they are wide open. Now that would drain a tank of
fuel!

Jon Stiles
