Date: Thu, 24 Feb 2011 21:24:24 -0700
From: Jonathan Stiles <misterstiles(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "accessys(-at-)smart.net" <accessys(-at-)smart.net>
Cc: "type2(-at-)type2.com" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] exhaust analysis - was: where is my fuel going...

I have been following this from a distance. I have a couple of
suggestions. Forgive me if I am repeating.

7 mpg is well beyond the worse I have ever experienced in any model or
combination of engines in a bus. 7mpg in a FI bus is like, "whoa,
what???, daaaamn". :)

Symptoms (I know I am re-stating here) of extreme richness. The bus
will barely run when warm, have no power and would be fouling plugs
like crazy. There would also be a distinct fuel rich odor at idle and
you would see a very visible cloud of unburnt fuel when you rev the
engine. The fuel would also spit all over your hand if you hold it in
front of the tailpipe when revving. Also if you can crank up the
timing to ludicrous levels without pinging, it is very rich.

That being said, are you sure beyond all possible reason you aren't
leaking fuel before it hits the injector rails? I had one instance a
customer only leaked fuel when driving at speed. Turned out his filter
wasn't secure with too much fuel line hanging down. When he would go
over bumps or the road's draft caught it, the filter was pulled down
just enough to create a pretty substantial stream of fuel. What was
confusing is there was very little odor since it was winter and cold
at the time.

I also thought about over cooling. Is your thermostat functioning
properly? Cold motors drain fuel tanks too, but typically not that
much.

The last thing I considered is if your cold start valve isn't stuck
wide open. That little bugger will also drain a tank fast. I have seen
them intermittent which is even more frustrating. Usually the symptoms
of a sticky CSV is the bus will start and act normally. But before the
motor is fully warmed up, like when you stop to grab something at the
corner store, it won't start and it floods. And CSV that is stuck wide
open all the time will have symptoms of flooding when trying to start
the bus at any temperature and the bus won't start or will barely run.
I have seen a CSV valve open and flood the motor with fuel only when
the bus was hot. But I have only seen it once. To this day I still
don't know what the heck caused it but a replacement CSV solved it.

Also, I really don't think it is the spark unless the negative side of
the coil is cold-firing the injectors so they are wide open all the
time instead of every 180 degrees in rotation. Now that would drain a
tank of fuel!

That's all I have to say about that.

Jon Stiles
