Date: Fri, 25 Feb 2011 02:09:24 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: accessys(-at-)smart.net
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: exhaust analysis - was: where is my fuel going...

On 2/24/2011 5:20 PM, accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:
> This looks like a good deal, but can't seem to find any info about it
> seperately.
>
> . where is it placed?

You'll need to have a bung welded somewhere in your exhaust - this can 
be done by a muffler shop.  It should ideally be placed somewhere after 
the collector.  The farther away from the heads, the more of a delay in 
the readings, but that really doesn't matter for you.  You're really 
after steady-state readings anyways, so location isn't particularly 
critical as long as it's measuring all cylinders.

> . how does it work

It measures the amount of oxygen in the exhaust and tells you what your 
air-to-fuel ratio is.

If you're curious, here is a datalog of one of my runs:

http://www.csulb.edu/~msoultan/megasquirt/thesamba/hill.png

You can see RPM, LOAD, SPARK ADVANCE, AFR (air-fuel-ratio), TP (throttle 
position), and SENSOR 01, 02, and 04 are CHT for the respective 
cylinders.  Obviously you won't have this much data, but you will be 
able to drive and look at the gauge and say to yourself, I'm at light 
cruise, the AFR should be such and such... Ok, I'm flooring it, the AFR 
should now be.... etc.  You can also compare your data to Richard's on 
the link I included below so you can verify that things are within spec. 
  If it's not too your liking, you run to the back of the bus, twist the 
AFM wheel a few clicks and do another run until you're happy.

> . does it have wiring long enough to reach the dash. (I have empty hole
> in guage panel)

That's something that you'll have to check into.  You could give 
innovate a call and ask them.  Since you'd be getting a gauge, that's a 
digital connection up front (it has two analog outs and one digital 
out), so you'd want to ask them if you can extend the digital line.

> . what is the ideal setting for a type IV engine

Wire it up, hook up a laptop and configure it for gasoline (which it 
probably is already configured for), do a free-air calibration, and 
drive around and see what your AFRs are.  Now, like John mentioned, an 
LM-1 is a much easier setup because it's not a permanent installation 
(which is what John rents from aircooled.net), so you just plug the 
gauge into the lighter socket, stick the sniffer in the exhaust, and 
drive it around (Richard Atwell owns one of these, btw):

http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Smog.html#passasm

Scroll down a little and you'll see the LM-1.  If you don't want to deal 
with the LC-1 installation, the rental is probably the next best option. 
  The only other major requirement is that your exhaust needs to be 
leak-free for it to get an accurate reading, but it should be leak-free 
regardless.

> sorry for the questions but this is something that I have not used but
> wouldn't object to installing if it would help find the answers to this
> problem. do you use this or have any experience with this company.

It will not necessarily find the exact answers, but it will tell you 
exactly what your AFR is.  Should you find that your AFR is 13:1 at 
cruise (which is pretty descent), then you'll know you're losing fuel 
somewhere else than in the engine.  If you're running richer than 12:1 
at cruise, for example, you'll know you're burning waaaay too much fuel 
and you can lean it out until it's where you want it.  This is pretty 
much the ultimate tuning tool.

And yes, I have experience with this unit - I have two of them.  Before 
this, there was really no way to accurately tune your AFM without either 
reading the plugs, going to a dyno shop, or guestimating with the smog 
readings.  Now you can accurately gauge what the heck is going on in 
your engine and make the changes yourself.

I think the only major issue with this unit is that you have to install 
it - meaning you have to provide switched power.  I'd recommend running 
a separate fused +12v supply line to a relay that's triggered by either 
the coil or the fuel pump.  A cold-start relay harness works perfectly 
for this because it has the wiring, a fuse, and a relay holder.  Then 
you just have to ground a few wires and zip-tie the LC-1 plug somewhere 
under the bus and run the wires up-front.

Mike
