Date: Sat, 26 Feb 2011 12:30:44 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robert Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Some Phrydae Phun - Why I Drive A Bus - LA OCTO Show

L.A. surfer Chris featured:
>
>The "scoop" has fallen to the wayside as it is not stock. It is a remnant of
>the 60's and 70's.

	So am I  -  wanna make something of it? 8-)
	The whole plurry T2 is in the same category 'remnant of the 
60s and 70s' , and still appeals to many prudent folk, no? :-X


>  I for one opted to remove mine when I had my bus
>restored.

	Well I for one can't empathise with the 'councourse 
d'elegance' mentality.  If a simple cheap accessory improves the 
vehicle, then I'm open to it.
	Warming to the topic: whether the improvement is readily 
visible may not be a dominant criterion.   You can't see a CD 
ignition system e.g Crane from the outside, so it lets you keep the 
'original' image; but if you want better cooling, the strip on the 
rear of the intake louvres will help, at the price of abolishing the 
'pristine' image.  I'm not dominantly concerned with image.
	One valuable improvement to the Type 2  -  which the VW 
factory didn't get around to, on their heaviest type, till 1973  - 
is disc front brakes.   They're visible   ...  but for those who 
carry large payloads, they're a safety measure worth some money and 
loss of image.  Those who drive for go, not just show, tend not to 
share the 'purist' attitude.


>   There was some annecdotal information that it didn't make any
>significant difference to engine temps.  Was never able to check on that.

	Tsk, tsk.  Ah tole yez it works.


>What with the newer dog house oil cooler and wider fan, engines run cooler
>naturally

	I dare say
	But the summary I gave is founded on many measurements.  The 
dipstick oil thermometer came in soon after we invented the intake 
scoop.  But it was hardly needed: when I first fitted my scoops, 
cruising flat-out in constant Mexican desert weather, having warmed 
the motor up thoroughly I couldn't lay my hand on the crankcase; but 
then after 1/2 h flat-out with the scoops, I could thus lay the hand.


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600dp Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
