Date: Sat, 26 Feb 2011 09:31:34 -0800
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: exhaust analysis - was: where is my fuel going...

On 2/26/2011 7:06 AM, accessys(-at-)smart.net wrote:
> I like analog gauges so in looking around I see the innovate 3822-G5
> complete analog kit also the 3828 18ft extension cables.

Ok, it turns out that you don't need an extension because the G5 gauge 
only reads the analog out, not the digital out.  That actually makes 
life a little easier because all you need to do is run a 4-wire bundle 
to the back of the bus and connect it to the same power source and 
connections of the LC-1 - an ethernet cable would work fine for this as 
well (it's actually what I use).

> what is your opinion of these guages. welding a bung in is no big deal I
> have a welder and drill so souldn't be a problem. where to put it now
> could be a big deal. also have to clean up some minor exhaust leaks that
> have been bugging me for a bit.

You want to locate it somewhere after the collector.  Timo just posted 
up a picture of where he welded his in place.

> but once I get it working how do I get it to tell me what to do to
> improve fuel enoconomy.... don't mind buying a tool but sure would like
> to know how to use it.

Richard has values that you should go for:

http://www.ratwell.com/technical/Smog.html#passtsi

Scroll down a page or so and he's got all sorts of information on there 
regarding adjusting the AFM.  Pretty much if it's too rich, lean it out 
- too lean, richen it up.  In your case, you're going to lean it out 
until it runs reasonably (matches Richard's values).  At that point, it 
may run normally from that point on, or it might uncover the real 
culprit of your low MPG.  If it's the latter, you can fix the problem 
and then retune again to the proper AFRs.

As far as getting a bit more advanced, you can keep leaning and leaning 
to get better economy, but you'll lose power and the closer you get to 
14.7 *under load*, the higher your head temps will get.  Running at 14.7 
at light cruise is not bad, and actually, if you keep leaning, you'll 
get even better economy and your head temps will drop.  You will not be 
able to do this, however, because you only have one adjustment that 
affects the entire throttle range.  I just figured I'd let ya know what 
was possible :)

Mike
