Date: Sun, 09 Jul 2006 09:13:16 -0400
From: mygroups <mygroups(-at-)frontiernet.net>
To: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
Subject: Re: [T2] rapid response to low oil-P

VW should have understood the American market better than they did 
(after 30 yrs) and supplied the VW vans (starting in about 1968) with a 
flat-six. It would not have had to be the highly developed Porsche 911 
flat-six, but something more along the lines of a flat 6 Type IV engine 
based on 2.0L pistons and cylinders. That would be a 3.0L engine that 
would have been much less stressed and would have prob lasted forever. 
Add a 5 speed tranny rather than a 4 speed.

Am wondering if it was a lack of understanding (maybe the Germans 
basically designed these vans as city vehicles whose 110 kph abilities 
were rarely needed), a bean counter's decision to save some cash by 
using their car parts in the vans too, or  what?

I listen to a podcast of a radio show called the "Business Beat" from 
WCIN and they recently reported that VW set up a bunch of German and a 
few American VW engineers in a beach house in Malibu for 6 months. The 
idea was these Germans would learn how Americans live (after 50 yrs), 
how we drive, what we do with our cars. I would not have guessed that 
Americans were that different from Germans in the questions of cars and 
what we do with them since German cars are well thought of here. We 
aren't that different from the Italians I lived with in Italy for 3 yrs 
except that they pay WAY more for fuel than we do and understand the 
concept of city cars.

One comment in the radio show was about a cultural disconnect where 
(most?) Germans did not eat/drink in their cars while the number of 
cupholders is so very important to Americans. I would not have thought 
that this so elementary topic would still be an issue to ponder for VW. 
On the other hand my '97 VW Cabrio has two small front cupholders 
suitable only for soda pop in a can and a single cupholder in back 
suitable for a smallish fountain drink. It is however a huge step 
forward from the 1993 Eurovan we have that has ZERO cupholders unless 
you consider the depressions in the backs of the rear seats that would 
give you a place to put a cup or a can if the seats were folded flat and 
if the vehicle was stationary.

Back to vintage VWs - I see our aircooled VWs to be adequate in a 55 mph 
world. That world is quickly fading away around here (Tennessee). It's 
also adequate if you don't demand passing power, don't demand a/c, and - 
- well, you get the idea. I can live with a 2.0L Type IV in a bus though 
b/c I am patient. That same 2.0L Type IV is better suited as a Beetle 
motor though. All reasons that the Beetle (and the bus) got it's kiester 
kicked in the 70's by the Asian imports with a/c and 5 speeds.  A car 
company has got to keep up or at least offer new models along with the 
old (in South Africa you can still buy the 80's style Rabbits along with 
the current VW models - I think that is cool.)

See ya.
Chris in Cookeville
'78 Westy 2,7L flat-six


>Well.  This is a quite poor example actually, as our beloved
>airhowlers are in fact a little overstressed by that huge 
>heavy unwieldy box that a Vanagon undoubtedly is.  We need to
>remember that the Type 1 was made to drive a humble little Bug,
>and the Type 4 was made to drive a not-so-little but still 
>relatively humble 411.  They have to work hard pushing around 
>a huge box on wheels.  And being air-cooled, they tend to get
>hot when they have to work hard.
