Date: Sun, 09 Jul 2006 19:51:06 +0200
From: Erik Meltzer <ermel(-at-)ermel.org>
To: Type2 Mailing List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] rapid response to low oil-P

Hi Volks!

mygroups wrote:
> VW should have understood the American market better than they did
> (after 30 yrs) and supplied the VW vans (starting in about 1968) with a
> flat-six. 

While that would certainly be a cult vehicle in Germany today, it
would've been all but unsellable new after 1973.  Remember, VW even
chickened out from producing the ready-developed flat-six waterboxer
for the Vanagon in the late '80s, selling the project lock, stock 
and barrel to Oettinger instead.  And even today's V6 Eurovans are,
IMHO, more of a by-product from V6 Passats than successful products
in their own right.

Fuel is just too expensive here for gas-guzzlers like that.

> Am wondering if it was a lack of understanding (maybe the Germans
> basically designed these vans as city vehicles whose 110 kph abilities
> were rarely needed), a bean counter's decision to save some cash by
> using their car parts in the vans too, or  what?

City vehicles?  The Type 4 engined Bus wasn't slow in its day,
and even the Type 1 engined one (even as a Vanagon) was far
from ridiculous.  The first generation Renault Trafic van, in
1980 or so, came with a 48 bhp engine in its basic version, and
that's a bigger van than a Vanagon.

This is a completely different culture, or at least used to be
then.  The Bug retained its 34 bhp entry level engine right through
1985 when they stopped importing them; 40 bhp was a common figure
for small cars; and 75 bhp in a Jetta-sized sedan was about average.
Even the most sluggish American cars used to seem ridiculously
over-engined to us over here.  And a Bus with a 3-litre flat-six
would have been material for a report about Mr Nordstadt's latest
crazy idea, not something that could've been put in a Volkswagen
showroom.

And thus, building such a beast for the US market would have been
a quite risky endeavour, which I can well understand they shied
away from.

> That same 2.0L Type IV is better suited as a Beetle
> motor though. All reasons that the Beetle (and the bus) got it's kiester
> kicked in the 70's by the Asian imports with a/c and 5 speeds.  A car
> company has got to keep up 

I beg to differ.  The Bug did okay in the US in the 1960s, when I 
understand four-cylinder engines were virtually unheard of and the
fins had to change annually, precisely *because* it did it all
differently.  I think it might've been possible to do it the same
different way in the 1970s as well, if it had been possible -- which
it wasn't.  Smog and security laws were what broke the Bug's neck,
both here in Europe and over there in America, not lack of power
and a five-speed tranny.  IMHO.

Airhowlingly yours,
   Erik.
-- 
"I always tell my agents: Don't give me any scripts that deal with love,
 relationships, or sex, because I don't know anything about those subjects.
 You know?  -- However.  Stratocasters I can deal with."
        -- Penelope Spheeris (director of "Wayne's World")
