Date: Sun, 09 Jul 2006 16:51:18 -0400
From: benoit <huotb(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: New top end and low power

Hey guys, a few questions and advices if i may!

Here the short story, i just bought a nice 79 delux Bus... but i had to 
bassicaly do the entire mechanic just to pass the inspection. Anyway, 
new trany and a semi rebuilt engine. (i work on Vanagon engine mostly 
but.... i hate them :-)

Situation:
A very good used core (rebuilt only a year ago and was running fine 
before), re-seal only:
New AMC head with the ridge (false head ring-gasket) still there (yep, i 
asked myself  if they should stay!!!)
New Pistons and sleeves (Brasil MAHLE), ring well gapped.
Of course the coolling sytem is all there and fully clean and sealed
about 300 miles dones, outside temps is in the 90 here and it was very 
windy for the past days.
Van is equiped with all VDO gages
New Aircooled_dot_net SVDA distributor timed to 7.5 -- 36-38 at 3000-3500rpm
Original exhaust (California Van), CAT empty.
Used but rebuilt single prog Weber (to lasy to installed my dual 
Kadron), but this carb was working fine on another Van

Result:
Overall ok, but lack of torque and power overall, this engine (for 
now!!!) pull less than my 1700 well rebuilt on my 73 Bus.
Engine oil and pressure are more than fine with a average temp of 
220-230, oil pressure is fine.
CHT (Cylinder head temp on #3) is where is my probleme now (2 different 
gage and sender were tried), climbs fast when cold, stay around 330-340 
even on idle, normal driving around town is between 340 and 380, around 
400 at 55 and as much as 450 at 65+. Another small thing that i just saw 
is oil comming out of the dipstick.... but i have to say that this one 
is old and not sealing well so i have just replace this one with a 
better one that i had

Compression test and leak down tomorrow, but for now, i wouls like your 
advice on head VS power VS new piston & sleeve.

I didn't drive thas Bus to hard today as i don't like to see the CHT 
over 450, but, like i said, i hade a good head wind and a lots of 
hill... still, power is on the low side! one thing i didn't check is 
that sowhat unknow condition muffler??? When i press the
gas pedal, it fell like a surge!!!

i may look like a noob asking all those basic questions since i have a 
VW shop but i simply alway took advices... this is how you get better.

I just wanna know your feedback on new pistons & sleeve for the first 
500 miles or so!

Cheers, Ben
http://www.benplace.com
