Date: Sat, 12 May 2007 11:07:30 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: Jeremiah Stutte <jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] cold star valve query

You won't hurt a thing bypassing the CS valve. There
should be no worry of air leaking, but if so, just
leave a short length of hose attache on each side and
clamp a bolt in there to seal the ends. Be sure to use
high pressure FI hose for your bypass piece. You could
alos do the same by placing a piece of rigid line for
the bypass, long enough for existing fuel rail lines
to attach to. Your air bypass valve will still work
(if it IS working) but all that does is speed the
engine up for a bit.

Check your aircleaner and your exhaust. Dirty
aircleaner will cause rich  and so will exhaust pipe
damage. As I typed that previous sentence, I got to
thinking about it - Neither of those items should
cause a rich condition because they would both lower
the airflow through the AFM and therefore the mix
should remain the same, Good to check them anyway,
tho!

Do you have a throttle body switch on yours? Is it
loose? (Kind of a low-tech TPS)

How's the resistance at the CHT sensor? Should be
around 2400 ohms at around 70 degrees. More resistance
would cause rich mix. -BaH


--- Jeremiah Stutte <jeremiah.stutte(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 on my FI 75 engine i'm running a little rich on
 start up and idle.
 nose tester only, no real exhaust sniffer.  i will
 obviously adjust
 the mixture incrementaly first, but i was wondering
 what harm would be
 done if i bypassed the cold start valve by running a
 bit of fuel hose
 from the fuel rail on the drivers side to the
 passenger side?  this
 would eliminate the cold start valve altogether.  i
 would plug up the
 plenums on the cold start injector in case it is
 leaking so air  would
 not be sucked in.  the CS valve is just difficult to
 access and i'm
 lazy.  will i be doing irreprible harm to anything? 
 should i just do
 it right the first time and not mess w/ this?
 
 
 temps are in the humid 60's-80's.  stupid stl
 weather.
 
 
 TIA,
 jeremiah
 


-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
