Date: Tue, 15 May 2007 19:14:38 -0400
From: "Peter T. Owsianowski" <pnoceanwesty(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Buses by the Beach Bus Benefit Auction and Raffle

Hey Volks:

We got some great stuff cookin' at Buses by the Beach this weekend!

Here's a sampling of the cool VeeDub themed items we will have to auction
and raffle on Saturday below:  (100% of the proceeds go to the Phoenix
Society for Burn Survivors)


*5th Annual Buses by the Beach Raffle Items *



1.  Really Cool Waffle Iron donated by Carbon's Golden Malted

2.  Really Cool RC VW Bus (complete with miniature smoking lounge) donated
by Todd and Jamie          Duell

3. Really Cool Oak Cutting Boards donated by Chris Owsianowski



4.  Really Cool Dead Flag w/ Jerry Bears donated by Dan & Jodie VandenHeede



5. Really Cool Samba Clock donated by Lori Kovitz



6. Really Cool Jim Beam filled VW Beetle decanter donated by Brien and Sara
Dews



7. 14 Really Cool 70's/VW themed iron ons and one sticker.  Donated by Jeff
Santos



8.  6 really cool"Flower/Smile/Love Splittie KeyChains



9.  1 really cool VW logo pocket watch



10.  1 really cool rubber Splittie stamp



11.  1 really cool "Chub City" cherry red RC Splittie w/RC



35.  New tent from Campmore for VW van/buses attaches to rear door and
bumper. allows extra space for sleeping. retails for $100.00  (Donated by
Jan Gullett-Ross)



47.  A VW  dealer license plate. "Vanagon Camper, nothing else is a
Volkswagan" (Donated by Jan Gullett-Ross)



48. Really Cool Tye-Dye VW Set (Donated by Mark and Julie Lazerwitz)



49.  A Hawaiian original Duke Kahanamoku authentic surfwear (Blue/White)
(Donated by Jon Shears)






60.  1 really groovy Hemp VW long sleeve button up shirt (Donated by Jim
Leep,            Gurley Leep VW)





77.  Bitchin' First Act Garage Master VW Guitar (Donated VWOA- Kenny Rogers)






 78.  Awesome Lil Miss Sunshine DVD.  (Donated By Madame Cheezel)



We have a ton of VW RC buses and die-cast models.  We are looking for great
weather and a great turnout.  Everybody should win somethin' based on the
great response we have had with donations!



See you this weekend at Grand Rogue Campground!


Pete
'79 Westy "Aardvark"
'87 Westy "Joe's Van"
'02 Audi A6 Avant
WWW. Busesbythebeach.com
