Date: Fri, 18 May 2007 19:50:45 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: =?ISO-8859-1?q?=20TgifGram=AE=3A=20the=20next=20motor?=

			THE  NEXT  MOTOR

	Australian Ralph Sarich who rocketed to media stardom 3 
decades ago by claiming to have invented a rotary engine (which AFAIK 
has never been shown) then settled down and concentrated on improving 
breathing & combustion of the ordinary reciprocating stroker. The 
resulting motors have proven outstanding  -  considerably ahead of 
DOHC 4-stroke engines on weight, power, economy, and pollution.  This 
really is stratified-charge combustion.
	I'll leave you to read about it on the Orbital website
http://www.orbeng.com.au/orbital/directinjection/technical.htm 
		which tho' inadequate does give the basic ideas.
	My favourite test was on the police cars patrolling the 
Brighton (UK) promenade.  Ford Fiestas with Orbital's 1200cc 3-cyl 
strokers replacing the Ford DOHC 1600cc: no more drag-racing on the 
promenade, as the hoons soon found they couldn't get away from these 
lighter, peppier uniformeds.  Similarly, replacing the DOHC in a BMW 
5 by a smaller, lighter Orbital stroker improved every aspect of 
performance.
	One of the impressive prototypes is a parallel twin of 0.8L 
which could be an approx substitute for, say, a VW 1.6L in a T2  - 
and lighter.  It is, however, liquid-cooled ;={

	I've followed this air-assisted injection with some interest. 
Altho' Sarich's firm Orbital doesn't normally ackn the prior art, 
Moto Guzzi invented this type of fuel injection  -  on an in-line 
4-stroke 4-cyl GP bike (which didn't do much good - probably because 
like BMW it had the crankshaft along rather than across the bike, a 
handicap in extreme cornering).
  	More recently Orbital has done similar injection on 4-stroke 
motors.  I don't know why they bother.  The 3-cyl and many other 
prototypes have proved themselves The Next Motor.

	If engine development were based on reason, the Orbital 
stroker would have taken over most new car & motorcycle mfg by now.  
I guess the main reason the big mfrs (who have all made their own 
prototypes) don't convert to it is that the accountants on their 
boards keep intoning 'we paid millions for that robot to stuff 24 
poppet valves into zero-clearance guides on TV without a human in 
sight, and it's still working, so we won't agree to the abolition of 
valves'.

	Kits to convert T2 motors to air injection should by now be 
available.  (60 psi air is handy on a vehicle for other purposes too.)

RM
