Date: Thu, 9 Jun 2005 08:15:29 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Sherwin de Leon <sherwin(-at-)vwcp.org>
Subject: Re: [T2] VPC Air Conditioner for Station Wagon

Sherwin,

#1. Wait for the pics.
#2. Ron is correct, go straight for the Sanden.

However! Wait till I post the pics of how the Sanden should be configured.

Ron may not remember that to get the sanden and kit that he sent to work,
I had to put an entirelly different "head" on the compressor.

The good news is that it *all* goes under the stock tin....wups!
Forgot that you have a 69....not a t4 engine.  In my 78 it is all under 
the stock tin.

Hmmm.....I don't think it's gonna happen in a 69.

I suspect you have enough room to get a rotary in there, but you are going 
to have to do some serious thinking about this.  The problem is that you 
need a "hunky" rotary to carry the load for you DC and your end to 
pulley(fan shroud to pulley and belt) space is limited.

Sherwin, do you have a welder? or access to one?  Can you do some welding?

Have you looked at the mount enough to see how it actually goes on the 
engine?...and how the compressor hooks up to it?

You only need two largish holes.  One behind your front seat in the corner 
next to the wall, and one where the hoses have to pass into the engine 
bay.

In your case, I suspect that you have the same amount of cutting to do for 
both the rotary and the york.  With the rotary, you *might not* have to 
cut off the original drivers side fan shroud air outlet and replace it with 
the one from your kit.

All that being said, the rotary would sure be the better 
choice...especially since you have a 1600.

Start by going out and roughly measuring how much distance between the 
fan shroud and where the belt will go on your main pulley....the A/C 
pulley and bolt in your kit whould be used when you make this measurement.

Then go and look at the compressors here 
http://www.sanden.com/products/index.html

You need to look at the "5" series and for example model 4506(the first 
one) shows about 190mm from the very back(next to the fan shroud to the 
first useable pulley groove...if you used the other groove, then you save 
maybe another 15mm in length.  Look closely atthe picture of the 4506 and 
notice that the "head" has the correct outlets and inlets that you are 
going to need to keep the overall length shortest.

WOW! they have electric compressors!!!!!!

Someone out there already makes what is called a "mount & drive" for T1 
engines cause I've seen one on a 65 bug at a show....it looked to 
small(capacity) for the bus...but who knows how powerfull it might be...

Oh yeah, did you mention that you wanted it to be "correct" era 
looking?...or do you really care?  <grin>

You *could* go ahead and install the mount, or at least see how it is 
going to go on the engine....you will have to trim some breast plate tin 
to do it, but you are probably going to have to trim that tin anyway.

The half circle mount part goes on the #4 exhaust outlet and is installed 
with the 2 "step" nuts that would partially fit down into the holes and 
then onto the exhaust studs.  Piece it together on the bench and get a 
feel for how it is installed.

The rest of that exercise is left to the student for the time being<big 
grin>.

Engine out or in right now?

Cheers, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Thu, 9 Jun 2005, Sherwin de Leon wrote:

> Dave,
 
 I would appreciate instructions on both the York and rotary compressor. Need
 all the help I can get. You are right, I have never seen one installed. No
 pressure though. I'm in no rush. Just doing my homework right now so I can
 make sure that I get it right when I start on the installation. Don't want
 to be cutting out unecessary holes on the body.
 
> Which will require less cutting, the York or rotary? I was just thinking of
> installing the York first to see how it should have been when installed by
> the dealer. Then eventually shifting to a rotary compressor to have a more
> efficient set up. Is this advisable? Or should I stick with just one? I
> don't want to be cutting and patching up holes when I switch compressors.
> 
> Anyway, everything is in theory for me right now and I might be asking the
> wrong questions. Maybe I should wait for your pictures first so I'll have a
> clear idea on how I should go about it. Thanks.
> 
> Sherwin
