Date: Thu, 9 Jun 2005 10:44:46 -0500 (CDT)
From: "Dave C. Bolen" <dbolen(-at-)shockwaverider.com>
To: Sherwin de Leon <sherwin(-at-)vwcp.org>
Subject: Re: [T2] VPC Air Conditioner for Station Wagon

Sherwin,

I'm almost certain that the kit you have is "correct".  If the mount is 
for an upright engine, and you have the york and clutch for it, it is 
"correct".

Look at the overhead unit and verify that your original(now unobtanium) 
dome light is the right size to fit in the cutout made for it....if so, it 
is "correct".

Sherwin....this is the fork in the road.  original, or better than 
original?

Are you going to a 100 point concours show or just vw shows.

I can't imagine anyone at a regular show deducting points for having a 
rotary compressor....unless you are up against someone with as nice a dc 
as you have and the only difference is that he has a york and you have a 
rotary.

The rotary is *much* prefered.  As someone said, less HP, less vibration, 
less space counsumed.


BTW, I have a 68 DC project that has been on hold for 3 years.

There is a negligable load on the engine if the A/C is not running...just 
the amount of energy required to turn the clutch bearings.  Only pulls the 
compressor when the magnetic clutch is energized.

There is nothing antiquated about your kit except for the mount and drive.

Mine uses rotary, but the rest of the kit pretty much as it came to me and 
it blows 44 degree air down my neck with Freeze 12 and a rotary 
compressor.  Except for compressors, the engineering on a new car A/C is 
going to be almost exactly the same....not much improvement in technology 
there(for the money).

The rotary "might" actually fit into your York mount with a little minimal 
work....in which case you are out only the money to buy the rotary and 
some new hose fittings.  A new rotary like you need might run you 
$180-250.

Checked prices on that unmentionable site for "original york compressors 
and new clutches?????  You might be amazed....

http://www.hotrodair.com
Do a Froogle search for Sanden 508....also, don't forget about Ron at BD.

Cheers, dave


-- 
-------------------------------------------------------------------
"I'm more interested in getting it right, than being right"....dave


On Thu, 9 Jun 2005, Sherwin de Leon wrote:

 Yes, I have a stock 1969 Kombi, 1600 single port, and yes, drum brakes. My
 only consolation is that the ZVW 203 270 is the "correct" period accessory
 option for my model, or so I was told. Can you confirm this, Dave? You're
 the one who worked for VPC. Although, what good will it do if me to have an
 antiquated set up but for a museum and shows? Given this scenario, will
> installing a York compressor have any additional load on my engine even if
> the aircon is not turned on?
> 
> But since I'm planning to use my Kombi as a daily driver after I've fully
> restored it into stock, I really am considering the rotary compressor for
> practical reasons. So please, keep your inputs coming. And maybe someone out
> there who has had experience with air conditioning a bus with a type-1
> engine, share their knowledge.
> 
> Sherwin
