From: "Karl" <aufever(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: "Bus list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Vintage list" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 13 Jan 2003 17:48:31 -0800
Subject: Re: Calif. & Ariz. Emissions Laws - What's the latest?

Before everyone in Calif runs out and takes off the air injection and EGR off their 74 buses:  All
you are exempt from is the biennial inspection. Legally, all 66 to 74 vehicles must still remain
untampered!

Here is an except from http://www.geocities.com/smogrfg/sb42/sb42.html

"This exemption only exempts you from the biennial smog test. Vehicle Code 27156 still requires you
to have the equipment on the vehicle.

No vehicle is exempt from Remote Sensing (discussed below). Even if your vehicle falls into the 30
year rolling exemption, you call still be directed to the Bureau of Automotive Repair Smog Referree
under California Air Resources Board(CARB) "Mandatory Inspection And Repair" and forced to replace
all of your smog equipment or risk having a "Registration Hold" placed on your vehicle license
renewal.

How fast "Mandatory Inspection and Repair" becomes the "order of business" is up for grabs.

In general all pre-1966 vehicles are considered "non-emission controlled" and would not require
changes. Some pickups in the 1966-1973 category also are considered "non-emission controlled".
According to current law all "non-emission controlled" vehicles would not need to add emissions
equipment to pass "Mandatory Inspection and Repair".

However, any other vehicle (1966-1973) that is modified (the state calls it "tampered emissions
system" might have to pull off those racing mods and return to stock.

This is the political football that is coming up if remote sensing becomes operational

In my opinion, many of you who thought is was smart to take off all your smog equipment and throw it
away are in for a rude awakening. The CARB Remote Sensing Study will begin in January 2003. For the
study there will be "500 Mandatory Inspection and Repair" vehicles directed to the BAR Smog Referree
and "500 Voluntary Inspection and Repair" vehicles directed to the BAR Smog Referree."

And here is the website that explains "Remote Sensing":

http://www.geocities.com/smogrfg/

Here is Vehicle Code 27156:  [this is why parts are marked "For off-road use in California"]

http://www.zapla.org/present/vehiclecode.html

SECTION 27156. . .

(c) No person shall install, sell, offer for sale, or advertise any device, apparatus, or mechanism
intended for use with, or as a part of, any required motor vehicle pollution control device or
system which alters or modifies the original design or performance of any such motor vehicle
pollution control device or system.

(d) If the court finds that a person has willfully violated this section, the court shall impose the
maximum fine that may be imposed in the case, and no part of the fine may be suspended.

(e) "Willfully," as used in this section, has the same meaning as the meaning of that word
prescribed in Section 7 of the Penal Code.

[Penal Code, Section 7: the word "willfully," when applied to the intent with which an act is done
or omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act, or make the omission referred
to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure another, or to acquire any
advantage.]

(f) No person shall operate a vehicle after notice by a traffic officer that the vehicle is not
equipped with the required certified motor vehicle pollution control device correctly installed in
operating condition, except as may be necessary to return the vehicle to the residence or place of
business of the owner or driver or to a garage, until the vehicle has been properly equipped with
such a device.
