From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 2003 11:58:08 EST
To: captoaster(-at-)cox.net, kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net, VintageBus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] re:heaters

well, the gas heater burns gasoline, and that exhaust has to be sent out of 
the engine compartment, so it gets an exhaust pipe.  from the outside it 
looks like two tailpipes.     two holes  about 1.5" diameter under the heater 
(one for intake which used a 1" paper tube like a pre heat tube, one metal 
exhaust pipe points straight down, then bends 45 degrees to back or to back 
and left,  and a rectangular hole running forward into the passenger area to 
the left of the gas tank.  pipe through the under the bed seat, then through 
a grill (covers hole in bedseat base).   runs from a t off the gas tank line. 
 
    a few years ago my then bf put a eberspacher in a 66 standard and it was 
nice and toasty in the bus when it was snowing outside.   the windows 
defogged almost instantly.  the whole bus was warm and dry.  The whole bus 
stayed drier.  That is fairly important around here with ambient humidity 
near or over 100% for about 9 or 10 months of the year, and everything gets 
soggy.

i would gladly drill those holes in my bus, it's just sheer procrastination 
that stops me.  maybe my new years resolution will be to get the gas heater 
in the camper.

seen a sc with the heater in the treasure chest, think it sent the heat out 
through the bulkhead behind the drivers leg, and the exhaust out through a 
hole in the floor.

In a message dated 1/14/2003 8:13:34 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
captoaster(-at-)cox.net writes:

<< 
 > was writ:
 > "Now a SouthWind or Eberspracher is putting out nice dry heat.  You split
 > the gas line so that you have one for the gas heater and you have to run
 > your exhaust out also."
 >
 > what do you mean you need to run the exhaust out also? DO you mean you
 need
 > to exhaust the heater out of the bus? Do you put the heater in the engine
 > compartment, or inside the bus, and how would you exhaust from either
 > location?
