From: "Andrew Strom" <the-andyman518(-at-)charter.net>
To: <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>, "Vintage List" <VintageBus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 14 Jan 2003 16:26:01 -0500
Subject: Re: [VB] black cat & southwind& more  heater ?s

OK, here's how mine is set up.  I've got a complete interior in my
walk-through 13-window.  If you are looking at the walk-through section from
the front of the bus, then you'll see the heater sitting half under the
middle seat.  The heater head is pointing towards the front of the bus
through the walk-through section.  It will warm up the entire bus pretty
well.  I'm guessing like get temps to 55-65 degrees with it being like 25-30
outside.  The front of the bus will be a little warmer than the rear of the
bus though.  I have the original rubber floor mat in place in the rear, and
it doesn't get hot at all.  The heater doesn't tip over, but if you corner
sharply, it will slide to the left and right just a little(stopped by the
legs of the middle seat).  I don't know if you could put it on the front
floor or not, but I would think that if you had a passenger, they'd have
trouble finding a place to put their feet so they won't be really hot.  I
have been inside the bus with the heater on for 4/5 hours at a time with no
windows or doors open, but all the window and door seals need replacing on
my bus, so they let in some fresh air.  I haven't died from it yet, so I
guess I'll be fine.  Good luck.

Andrew
'58 Panel Bus(for sale)
'60 European Beetle
'67 Deluxe Bus


> black cat
> sounds like a couple of you are using these things...what do you think? do
> you recommend them? How often do you use them-just on longer road trips
over
> 30 minutes....do they warm the whole bus, or just small areas? where do
you
> place it, how prone are they to tipping while driving around? I don't have
a
> walk-thru, could i put it on the front floor? or would it melt my floor
mat,
> or preclude me from having any front seat passengers? do you leave a
window
> open the whol time-how open, just a crack?I am imagineing driving with my
> heat catching fire, but a real nice cold breeze coming in the window ;)
