Date: Thu, 16 Jan 2003 11:02:30 -0700
From: "Curt Conklin" <CONKLINC(-at-)lawgate.byu.edu>
To: <hhouck(-at-)attbi.com>,<mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
Cc: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Re: vintage ev bus

Harry, others too,

While no expert on ev's or battery research, I have been following the
issue for years.  I used to be a night librarian at a trade tech and
read up on the stuff and have tried to keep up on it.  Carter poured
millions into battery research during his reign, and Reagan cut it off. 
It ihas since picked up.  After all the research, the advancement has
been relatively minimal, and expensive.  Lithium and nickel metal
hydride batteries are nominally lighter and better than lead acid.  Matt
Robards led me to an article by an engineer/physicst.  His point was
that there is obviously an issue with storage that the researchers
haven't been able to solve.

Look to hydrogen fuel cells with efficiencies approaching that of the
ICE and diesel as the next quantum leap.  Of course ICE's and diesels
continue to get more efficient at something like the rate of 1% each
year.  I heard talk of variable compression development in the article
referred to me by Matt.  Most of it was over my head.

That said, when you look at it, 10 grand for a local, in-town reliable
ride ain't that bad, especially if it is as big and roomy as a bus. 
Besides, it is a one-off.  If it were to be massed produced the price
would go way down.  

I read a study once that compared lead acid ev's with a car with 20 mpg
efficency, . . . because of battery life and expense in replacing, the
ICE with 20mpg one out.  The issue was amortization of battery cost over
life of the batteries. 

Another issue.  EV's are supposedly also better for the environment.  I
read where trading exhaust gasses for lead acid pollution in the making
and recycling of batteries is not much of a gain.  It is just trading
air for ground pollution.  

WHAT WE REALLY NEED, is the infernal perpetual motion machine.

Curt . . . Goin to BBB, goin to fill Tom Beuse's head with this on way
down!
