Date: Tue, 29 Mar 2005 09:03:09 -0800
From: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "Pace, Nick" <nickpace(-at-)rand.org>
Subject: Mysterious electronic points gizmo needs identification

The '71 Bus I recently bought with a 1600DP engine has a stock dizzy with a
vacc advance and vacc retard.  When I opened it up to see why my meter was
showing about a gazillion degrees of dwell, I was dumbfounded to find the
points gone and some sort of unholy, extraterrestrial alien setup in its
place.  Of course, the PO left no manuals or instructions about the care and
feeding of this electronic thingamabob and I can't even say for sure what type
of ignition system it is.  

So I'm hoping that my description of what I saw
might ring a bell and help me find the manufacturer and the model.  Fitted on
the distributor shaft directly underneath the stock rotor is a black donut
about 3/8 inch tall and about a beer cap in diameter with the number "8473"
stamped on top.  On the dizzy plate where the points once sat is a small black
box about a half inch tall that is near, but does not quite touch, the donut.
There is a little yellow label on the side of the box facing the donut of
which I can only read a portion.  It either says [something]8Y-V4 or
[something]9Y-V4.   Two wires come out of this box and exit the dizzy where
the condenser hole used to be with one going to the hot+ side of the coil and
the other on the trigger- side.

Does this sound familiar to you?  And if so,
what's the brand and type?  Ultimately I need to know what the heck am I
supposed to do for maintenance, for monitoring for trouble, and for roadside
repair?  (I've had a '70 or '71 Bus for the last 30 years but never had
anything but a stock set-up) The dwell seems whacky (something like 64
degrees) but the Bus runs OK (mileage could be better though) and I suspect
that the normal laws of thermodynamics and VW tune-ups don't apply when you
get into this sort of high tech stuff.  Because of the uncertainty, I'm
tempted to yank the whole thing and swap in my lo-tech (but more familiar)
.009 dizzy with those !(-at-)#$% points and condenser but I don't want to get rid
of something spiffy.


Thanks,


Nick

--------------------

This email
message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain
privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use,
disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient, please
contact the sender by reply email and destroy all copies
of the original
message.
