Date: Tue, 29 Mar 2005 18:44:36 -0800
From: "Pettibon, Jeremy" <Jeremy.Pettibon(-at-)cingular.com>
To: "Type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting Wheels

Great idea, Rob!  I think I might try that with the rest of my wheels
next week.  I used masking tape and newspaper on one side of my spare,
and that took forever.  If you want to see pics of that process, check
out my excellent ;) website http://mysite.verizon.net/pettibon (just
threw this together real quick to show these pictures - I'll have a
proper website up soon). I just cleaned most of the rust off with a wire
cup brush, then masked it off and shot some Rustoleum.  Don't worry -
the Rustoleum is just a temporary solution until I decide whether I want
to paint the wheels the original gray or a good white to match the
pop-top and bumpers when I do those.  I just can't be rolling around on
rusty wheels right now, you know?

Oh one other thing - if you're spray-painting the wheel with the tire
on, be sure to mask the other side somewhat or the spray-through will
get on the tire.

Jeremy

p.s. If the website shows broken images or anything, just keep
refreshing - the Verizon web space that comes with my DSL is kind of a
POS sometimes.

-----Original Message-----
Date: Tue, 29 Mar 2005 18:51:43 -0500
To: <toddjasp(-at-)bellsouth.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: "Rob Henley" <robhenley(-at-)baywindowbus.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Painting Wheels
Message-ID: <005a01c534ba$42c64a60$aa02a8c0(-at-)laptop>

Here is what I did:

I took a large garbage bag for each wheel and wrapped each up in it, tie
the
string. Then I gently tore the center of the bag and deflated the tire
somewhat. With a flat head screwdriver I wedged the torn edges of the
bag
between the tire and rim. This is super cheap to do and let's you paint
the
edge of the rim too. Once they have dried overnight deflate the tire
even
more and as you push the tire the bag will slip out again.

I found that duct tape leaves residue if left overnight and anything
else
won't stick good to a tire. Also after I had the bag wedged in the rim I

taped the excess bag to itself so it didn't blow on my fresh paint.

You will have to paint the weights and that is cheesy but what I did for
a
quick spruce up. I also sandblasted my wheels first.

Good luck,

Rob Henley
www.baywindowbus.com

------------------------------
