Date: Tue, 29 Mar 2005 20:53:45 -0800
From: Dave Rogge <tgtsfkncld(-at-)att.net>
To: type 2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Fiberglass hightop

Rob Henley wrote:

> Being a lover of my hightop and hightops in general I have a few 
> thoughts...
>
> You might want to consider what windows you could graft into the top, 
> possibly you could use a sliding window from a truck bed cap. You 
> could probably also do an aftermarket sunroof too, that would be real 
> neat.


When I got my hightop, there was a vent cut into the roof, and the vent 
was no longer attached.  After careful consideration of this vent, I 
decided it wasn't really ever going to keep water out, and probably 
wouldn't keep bugs out, not to mention adding three inches to the total 
height of the bus. 
So for a while I drove around with a hole in the roof.  My solution to 
this was not at all pretty, but it's very functional.  I got some caulk 
and a piece of plexiglass.  I screwed the plexiglass into the top 
(inside the hole there was a wooden frame, and some paneling to screw 
into).  This of course required me to lay on top of my hightop, with my 
weight spread out as evenly as possible so as not to crash right through 
it.  I put down a bead of caulk, screwed down the glass, and I had a 
sunroof.  It's about 12 inches, square.  Doesn't open though, but that's 
ok.  And if you're stupid enough to want to sleep in the cot that's 
still up there from the pop top setup, you get to look at the stars.  Of 
course, you're in a coffin at that point, and your feet can't point 
straight up, but it's pretty. 

There were once dreams of putting a bed up there, but they've mostly 
gone away.  I do enjoy all that storage though.  I pretty much put 
anything up there that won't hurt me when it comes down, and mostly 
everything stays put anyway.

- dave -
tgtsfkncld(-at-)att.net
LA, CA and WNY
70 hightop, 77 westy 2.0FI
"...and if the band you're in starts playing different tunes, I'll see 
you on the dark side of the moon."
