From: "John Rogers" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 24 Jul 2010 14:40:56 -0400
Subject: Trip Report .... Maryland to Arizona and back via Florida,

I've just completed a 12,000 mile, 6-month trip beginning in Maryland in
January and traveling south to Florida and then west  to New Mexico and the
southwest going as far west as the Grand Canyon before returning again to New
Mexico and southern Colorado. From there I traveled north to South Dakota,
east to Minneapolis (where my son and his wife live) and then, after my wife
flew in from home and joined me we traveled through Wisconsin to Mackinac
Island and the upper peninsula of Michigan before returning home to via Ohio
and Pennsylvania where we visited Fallingwater, the Frank Lloyd Wright
showcase home.  All totaled, 25 states.

Throughout the trip I lived in my 1970 Westy,  most of the time staying in
national and state parks with a little stealth camping and a few stays in
Walmart parking lots thrown in.

I learned a great deal about this country and the people who make it up.  One
of the surprises (to me) was the few other buses I encountered along the way.
I worry that we are a dying breed.  I did not encounter a single Splittie.  I
did see four other Bays.

-- One in the Grand Canyon, a white 1969 Westy with Pennsylvania tags, piloted
by two kids  making their way to California.

-- Another, a 1975 bright orange hard top Westy, in the Badlands National Park
in South Dakota, driven by a couple from Canada who found it a few months
before in Oklahoma and bought it.

-- A third at the summit of Monarch Pass (elevation 11,312 feet) in Colorado
as I was chugging to the top from the west and he was coming up from the east
in a lime green Bay Bay.  We passed each waving and grinning and pumping our
fists in celebration that are buses had quite literally made the (steep)
grade.

-- The fourth,  a white 1971 pop top  Westy, turned up the day after I did at
Great Sand Dunes National Park in southern Colorado, driven by a young school
teacher/musician, Eliot, accpmpanied by his wife, Kyce, and their two-year-old
young daughter, Cora.  What a treat.  We spent several days together.

I also encountered 10 or 12 Vanagons -- five within the space of two days at
one location, Colorado Monument National Park  west of Grand Junction.

Why so few buses? Maybe as our busses and we get older we are more reluctant
to drive them in an extended  manner.  Also, there are many larger and more
comfortable RVs out there today.  (In Colorado, four guys that I ran into from
New York had the week before pooled $2800 and bought a not too shabby RV on a
truck chassis -- a 28-feet an air-conditioned castle compared with my Bay.
And that was comparatively small. Some Class-A motor homes are 45-feet long
with home theaters and three bedrooms.  But is that camping?)

I got back six days ago, my bus in pretty good shape.  The only mechanical
issue I encountered on the trip was a leaking left rear wheel cylinder.  I
made repairs at a national park where to the casual passer-by I appeared
merely to be changing a tire (but taking an overly long time to do it).

Would I do such a trip again?  Maybe.  Maybe next summer,  from Maryland to
Alaska and back, if my wife agrees to go.  (She actually camps and travels
well).

One of the things I did learn on the trip was minimalism.  I got rid of a lot
of things along the way including some clothes, cookware, etc. I also brought
with me a nice westy drive-away tent and a separate shower tent.  (Both will
stay home in the future unless I am going somewhere to set up camp and stay
for several weeks.)

I did take along tools and a few spares -- though not the wheel cylinder and
brake shoes, the only parts I ended up needing.  They were shipped overnight
by Bus.  This was a good learning experience .... that you can get what you
need when you need it and you do not have to try to prepare for every
eventuality as would have been the case 20 years ago.

All in all it was a great adventure ... and now I am glad to be home.

Hmm, there are a lot of dead bugs on the front of the bus to clean up .....

Happy Busing,

John
