Date: Sat, 24 Jul 2010 14:12:55 -0700 (PDT)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Kevin Guarnotta <kguarnotta(-at-)usa.net>
Cc: type2list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: re:gauges

HI Kevin,
             If you want a useful set of VDO gages look in Jettas, some
Golf/Rabbits and the smaller Audi's.  Typically they have a three gage set at
the bottom of the console.  They go for $5 a gage at the CA pick-and-pulls
that I frequent.  You get the senders included.  Typical set is volts, oil
press, and oil, or water, temp.  There are pages on the web about changing a
water temp to an oil temp.  Essentially it uses the same sender you just need
to recalibrate it.  Audis, IIRC, sometimes have oil temp standard.  A
voltmeter is more useful than an amp meter, IMHO.  You "T" off the oil
pressure light switch for oil pressure gage.  Also (extensively) covered in
the type-2 archives.  As many folks will point out, the Dakota Digital temp
gages are more precise.  However, what we air-cooled folks are looking for are
trends, NOT absolute numbers.  Too many variables, load, road gradient, air
temperature, fuel quality, phase of the
 moon, whether you cat is pregnant, etc to care whether we actually have 235
or 240F exactly.     Unfortunately the Dakota Digital gages are plain ugly to
me, no matter how well they work.  I worked on aircraft instrumentation for 15
years, and have repaired, and calibrated, hundreds, if not thousands, of temp
gages.  They ALL drift, even the multi-thousand dollar ones in jets.  I made
sure they were as good as possible, especially near the blade stretch temp
(red line).  Helicopter pilots, in particular, sometimes need (and use) that
last bit of go.     For me, a $5 VDO, pulled from a Jetta, will show trends as
well as anything. YMMV. jon

snip>
Well,
 I think I have come up with a plan based on your feedback, and = some
web
 reading.

Gauges are good, learn how to read them, pay attention 
to them=85
Recommendations of gauges in order of importance, seems to
 be:
1. Oil Pressure
2. Oil Temp
3. Cylinder Head Temp

I
 already have a tach now (by PO) and I found a an oil temp gauge I =
bought
a long time ago-for another vehicle, but never installed. So I
 picked up =
an oil pressure gauge. I also found a 3 gauge trim 
panel, that should fit
nicely between the radio and ashtray. So 
hopefully I'll have a 3 gauge =
panel installed, and will be able to 
monitor the health of my engine better.
= If it works out well, I 
think I'll try to do something similar for my '65.

Thanks, and 
I'll let you know how the install goes

-Kevin
Jamaica Plain, 
MA
'69 single cab
'65 Kombi

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you don't
particularly like." Soichiro Honda
