Date: Mon, 26 Jul 2010 09:27:05 -0400
From: Anymouse <honeybus(-at-)gmail.com>
To: raceingcajun <raceingcajun(-at-)communicomm.com>
Cc: Neithammer <neithammer(-at-)aol.com>, TYPE 2 LIST <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: intake manifold mystery hose

OK, my 2 cents.

"vacuum has nothing to do with the actually stopping ability (friction) of
the brakes."

Correct.  The vacuum is applied to both sides of the diaphragm of the brake
booster.  When the brakes are applied, one side of the diaphragm is opened
to the atmosphere, and this cause some 15 psi pressure to be applied to that
side by mother nature, while the other side still maintains the relative
vacuum.

There is a one-way valve that allows the engine to suck on the line (the
line to the brake booster), and PREVENTS the loss of that vacuum when one
side is open to 'mother nature' (How old is mother nature, and how many
progeny.  Just asking... )



"The engine vacuum when applied to the brake booster/servo generates assist
when applying the brakes"

Perhaps could also be stated as: The engine vacuum when applied to ONE SIDE
OF THE DIAPHRAGM in the the brake booster/servo ALLOWS MOTHER NATURE TO
generates assist when applying the brakes"


Note:  If you shut the engine off and the engine vacuum goes to ZERO (but
isn't vacuum actually ZERO, by definition!?!?!?), the line to the brake
booster will still maintain vacuum because of the effectiveness of the
one-way valve.  You will STILL get mother nature's assist when your engine
cuts off, particularly important when traveling the highway, and the engine
instantly drops dead, like when your rubbing block/foot on your points
break, and the point gap goes to 0.00 mm or 0.00 inches or even 0.00 par
secs

Try it.  While traveling a good rate of speed, shut the engine off.  You
will (or you SHOULD) still experience the mother nature assistance.
However, quite shortly, perhaps less than 1 minute, the vacuum will
dissipate in the line, and you will be braking without assistance.

However, if all fails, you can ask the 500 pound gorilla to help. (Wait!
How much DOES mother nature weigh?!?!?!)

   Please note: all answers so far have been correct except for this point.
> The vacuum has nothing to do with the actually stopping ability (friction)
> of the brakes. The engine vacuum when applied to the brake booster/servo
> generates assist when applying the brakes. The brakes will still stop the
> van without this assist, only problem is you need a 500lb gorilla to push on
> the peddle!
