Date: Mon, 26 Jul 2010 13:41:26 -0400
From: Richard Palmer <richard(-at-)teamspatula.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Back in a Bay!!!

Well, many years after leaving the Bay world and focusing on splits, I have
recently acquired a bay bus from a friend with twins, who no longer has the
time or money for bus ownership. It is a 1977 bus, marinogelb and pastel
weiss, with remnants of some American camper conversion, 4 speed, with
theoretically rebuilt 2.0, and through the course of sitting/not running
which finally caused my friend to throw in the towel, is tragically now
running a 009 distributor and single Weber carb. To add insult to injury,
all the Fuel Injection stuff got thrown away.
:(
The bus is currently about 200 miles away from me in its (and my) past home
town of Raleigh. Even messing with the timing and carb, it doesn't run well
enough for me to feel safe/comfortable driving it back up here.
So, since I have not paid attention to all the many 009/Weber threads over
the years, can someone point me to a comprehensive resource on optimizing
those for the short term? I will be looking to get a FI setup at some point,
but barely had the money to get this in the first place, so that'll be a
while. I may be able to scrape up an SVDA distributor, but do those even
match up with the type IV stuff? Is there something I can do that will get
me home and through the next few months until I can track down something
better, without hurting the engine in the mean time? This thing has a
monster flat spot that makes Kansas look like the Rocky Mountains, is
generally sluggish and unresponsive, and doesn't fill me with confidence.
Plugs are good, valves just set, fresh oil change, etc, but now away from
the bus for a couple weeks. I appreciate any tips, pointers, etc, so that
next time I can drive it home!
(and of course put my antique type2.com sticker on the window as proper)
:)
Thanks, and I'll be posting a big wish list for camper stuff once I get it
back up here, since most of the interior has been stripped out years ago.
