Date: Thu, 29 Jul 2010 10:34:51 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Brake Lights requiring excessive pedal force

On 7/29/2010 10:05 AM, jules wrote:
> Any ideas of places to look before I start considering replacing the
> two brake switches on the master cylinder? I'll check my grounds but I
> can't see how a grounding problem could cause the behavior I'm seeing.

I would first try bleeding your entire brake system.  Most people never 
do this and you should really make a habit of doing it every few years 
because brake fluid absorbs moisture (which is bad for the brake 
system).  In your case, you might have air bubbles that are being 
compressed and not allowing the system to build up adequate pressure... 
but that's just a guess.

That said, those switches are not very expensive and if you change them 
out, you'll have to bleed the brake system again...  So actually, I'd 
probably change both switches regardless and then bleed the brake 
system.  If you haven't bled the system in a while, you'll be doing 
yourself a favor and probably end up with better braking performance. 
Should you still have a problem, you can check the wiring.

Btw, if you want to verify that it's the switches or the brake system, 
have someone press the brake while you test the continuity between the 
contacts on the switch.  Normally there is continuity between contacts 
81 and 81a - when you press the pedal, you should now get continuity 
between 81 and 82a with no continuity between 81 and 81a (until you 
release the pedal).  Both switches are identical (one is for the front 
circuit and the other for the back).

Oh, and in case there were people that don't know how the brake circuit 
functions: if both brake circuits are good, no warning light (hand brake 
light) will come on and the brake lights will illuminate.  If one brake 
circuit fails (EITHER front or back), the warning light comes on and the 
brake lights will illuminate.  If BOTH front and back circuits fail, the 
warning light will NOT come on, the brake lights will NOT illuminate, 
and most likely you won't be stopping any time soon.

Hope that helps!

Mike
