From: "David Mayes" <mayesd(-at-)dsquared-dev.com>
To: "Vintagebus(-at-)Type2. Com \(E-mail\)" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 14 Nov 2002 14:21:16 -0800
Subject: cruisin' the v80

It really amazes me... people stare at you when you drive around in a kooky
old VW.  You'd think that they had never seen something like it before ;-)

So, I head out to the dmv to get it licensed and titled.  The front tires
need to be balanced but the rest is in good shape (I inspected the front
wheel bearings last night and its all looks primo).  I get there and some
friends of mine who are long time VW fans are out there... they recently
retired and had traded in their eurovan MV for a nice Riatta.  They told me
they sold a 56 Westy back in the early 60's in Maine... that was their first
VW and have owned camper busses ever since.  I told them I had just bought a
new vw as well but they weren't expecting what they saw when we walked out
with the lady to inspect the vin#s of their and my vehicles.  The guy was
totally enamored.  Anyway, I ordered plates.   The first choice was 'VW
BCKT' to go along with 'VW TPPR'.  My second choice was Jim Ellis' 'PNZXTN'
and the lady looked at me and said 'Now what does that mean' and I replied,
'Think about it', she says 'Is it naughty' and said 'uh, I dunno'.... then
she said that maybe she didn't want to know at the moment and she'd think
about it later lest she get embarrassed.  'UPUPVW' was the third choice.
All three plates were available so I'll probably get the 'VW BCKT'.  When
everything was finished, the lady asked me if I'd come over near xmas and
help her string lights on her trees.  I have a feeling that will be a common
request.

Next, I stopped by to see my friend at the body shop and we talked about the
frame.  Less than $500 he said.  I just need the frame section.  We also
talked about getting the whole thing painted but not to show vehicle
quality.... this thing is going to work!  I'll probably get the frame fixed
and then think about paint later on since I'm gonna hold myself to finishing
the double cab first (yea right).


Later.


David
