From: "gns.wagnon" <res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net>
To: "Vintage Bus Post" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 17 Nov 2002 19:55:40 -0600
Subject: Re: Re: Switches for a '67

Volk-a-maniacs,

Success!  The turn signal switch is now back in place.  It's still a little
monkey-rigged with a plastic filler piece on the inside of the half moon
ring side of the housing.  But it works for the most part.  Someday soon, I
will probably take Bob Petzel's recommendation and sand down one side of the
clamp housing.  That should give me a little more room to clamp down.  To
answer Clara's question, the screws are fine and they push though the half
moon piece, then thread into the main piece with the switch and lever.  The
problem is that the clamp housing is just worn down from many years of
coming loose, then the driver(s) spinning it to the right spot.for
semi-functional use.  Never really fixing the issue... kinda like my
solution today.  Hmm.  Maybe I ought get a quote on a replacement??  $225 at
WolfsburgWest.com and they are out of stock at the moment.

Clara - can you pmail me with your price?

Regarding the headlight switch.  I took the thing off and apart (thanks for
the write up on the type2.com library via Eric & Barb and Matt.)  It looks
like the 'sizzle and smoke' came from the metal bar coming from the side of
the shaft that you pull out and spin for different functionality.  Its the
non-copper bar between the shaft and the connector that hits the points on
the rheostat.  That bar somehow hit the metal that is attached to the rivet
that I should have NOT removed (from page 3 of instructions mentioned
earlier).  This riveted piece comes from the rivet and has a hole where the
shaft enters the hole of the plastic half of the switch.  Both pieces of
metal (plastic and shaft pieces) were burnt, blue, and semi melted.  Just
for kicks, I took some pictures and will post them here shortly:
http://community.webshots.com/user/tempor4

I decided to take the riveted piece off entirely (as it apparently only has
control over the dash dimmer lights).  I then followed the guide from the
library further and am soldering the 58 and 58b terminals together.  This
should give me the dash dimmer at bright setting all the time and only when
the parking lights are on (pre-requisite for lights being on as well.)
Again, thank you to Eric & Barb and Matt for the right up.  It was a huge
help.

See you on the road...
Greg & Father in Law Dan

'67 Standard
'74 Beetle
(Mother in law wants a New Bus.  We'll see.)
