From: T. <midgard(-at-)dragon.org>
Date: Mon, 8 Dec 2003 06:56:25 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Please buy my 1984 Vanagon.

Hi all,
I live in Phoenix. Ive got a Vanagon that Ive had for 3 or so years
now. His name is Sparky. Hes the best little Vanagon; hes dependable,
reliable, and leaks neither water nor oil! Sparky has 122,000 miles on
his engine and he doesnt burn oil or smoke either. I always use 5-30
or 10-30 multigrade detergent oil in his crankcase. It runs smooth and
clean without leaks or burning. His dash is not cracked or peeling. His
interior is in great shape; he even has new radio speakers (though his
radio needs to be upgraded from factory!) He has that nice velour tan
interior with the Captains chairs and the middle row seat. The
headliner is intact and not ripped up. No stains or spills on the
seats. The carpeting is in what I would call acceptable and worn
condition; I would try cleaning it before replacing it. It if I had the
money as it no longer looks clean and new. Youll love the tinted
windows for privacy when parking somewhere. Im telling you, hes the
best little Vanagon Ive ever met. His body has no rust, there are a
few places where hell need some TLC to take out a couple of dings in
his body, but nothing major. I doubt hes ever been in a major
accident. I would not be selling Sparky if I could find a way through
my current financial dilemma, but I cant. Tough times are ahead for
me. I am broke and have been told I am to be laid off for the next 8
weeks or so. Unfortunately, that came at a bad time as I just spent my
savings to overhaul my project van (we all have a project van, dont
we?) Mine was to the tune of over $4500! So, I am broke and need money.
If I sold my project van, I would not get nearly the $4500 that I just
spent on it. So, I have to part with Sparky. But, I dont want to sell
him to someone that lacks the love of the Bus, you know? Anyway, I will
post my pictures for Sparky at this URL for you to see him.

http://briefcase.yahoo.com/tec4357

When you get to the URL, click on Public, then choose Sparky. There are
4 pictures of his exterior. I need to snap a few of the interior, but I
assure you, hes pretty in and out.

I dont want to put him on eBay as I dont know what kind of person is
likely to buy him, whether for salvage or some crazy ideas that involve
cutting torches. I just couldnt see that happen to him. Hes been too
loyal of a family member to have that happen to him.

Maintenance and Fixes to make him A-1 shape:

1.	I replaced his water pump a while back (1 year ago) and had a hose
replaced at that time.
2.	I had the clutch pressure hose replaced in the past 3 months.
3.	His front tires are in great shape, the rear tires will need to be
changed next year.
4.	Brakes are good all around (rear replaced 3 months ago). The front
ones squeal a bit during stops, but I was told that was because the
pads were a cheap brand, but adequate to the task.
5.	Ive never used phosphate coolant; Ive always used the Peak
environmentally safe brand.
6.	The cooling fan is stuck on high speed and wont shut off (which is
how I wanted it for the hot Arizona desert).
7.	The rear seat heater seems to not blow hot enough. I suspect it is
the shut off valve in the wrong position. Ive never had cause to use
it as I just dont get cold enough to turn it on and spend the time to
figure out what is up with it.
8.	The front heater works, but the blower doesnt. I figured out the
fix for that: replace the blower or... open the defroster vent and
crack open one of the little triangle windows. Then it blows great (ram
jet action). This fix also works for the floor vent for drivers feet.
9.	The gas gauge never worked. But, Im of the old school, when gauges
were a luxury item. My work around was simple: I use the trip meter.
Every time I refill the tank, I reset it. At 200 miles, I look for a
station. At 250 miles, Im kicking my butt because I didnt look for a
station.
10.	The windshield would need replacing eventually if you want to get
rid of the couple of chips, but there are no running cracks.
11.	The analogue clock sometimes works, but I wouldnt trust it. I bet
it needs to be cleaned.
12.	I just replaced all the interior passenger lights and the rear
radio speakers, but the door speakers sound cracked and I havent done
them yet.
13.	The radio antenna cable needs to be replaced. I bought it, but Ive
not correctly installed it was not high in the priorities.
14.	The sliding door has a new handle and lock. The key didnt come
with it. So, either rekey it, or do what I do: open the passenger door
and un/lock from inside.
15.	The rear bumper is needing the end caps and probably straightening
a bit. It came that way when I bought him. I hadnt bothered as I was
lining up a body man to do all the work at once and build some real
bumpers for him. That fell through when my niece stopped dating him.

Im asking $2,000 for him, but will help out if you plan to ship him to
you. Hes been a daily dependable driver and made long treks to LA and
Torrance, CA. I really hope someone loves him as much as he has loved
me and I him. I thank you for reading this long love letter about my
faithful friend and hope to hear from you soon!

Timothy in Phoenix, AZ
