To: msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu,type2(-at-)type2.com,bluesky6(-at-)ix.netcom.com
Date: Tue, 9 Dec 2003 08:42:45 -0500
From: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bad hydraulic lifters (rant)

Yes, I completely agree. The ONLY way you can save the cam, is if you
rebuild the lifters. That is something you CAN do. It's a pain, but you
have to take your pick... replace the cam AND lifters, or rebuild the
lifters in question. You'll need a ring-puller tool. You can actually buy
a whole new set and then just replace the innards from the new lifters
into the old lifters. You may even want to re-use the pushrod plate in
the lifter. All of those are wear points, and they have since worn in
together. Installing completely new lifters on an old cam will just cause
severe wear and tear on the camshaft. 

I did this a few years ago to a 1984 Pontiac Fiero 2m4 SE that I still
own actually. It was a MINT condition Fiero... loaded, every option you
could possibly imagine, it's even the #173 Fiero ever produced (out of
something like 300 thousand for the 5 years of production). I learned how
to work on cars by screwing it up. (don't fret, I still own it and all
the original parts). But, I did replace the lifters with BRAND NEW
lifters on top of an older camshaft. At the time, the idea of replacing a
camshaft, to me, with the limited experience I had at the time, would be
like inventing a fusion reactor. Seemed impossible to me. Sure enough, in
less than 800 or so miles, the car runs like complete crap. The idle is
bad, it has almost no power whatsoever. ALL because of those lifters. 
The car got so bad, that I've literally parked it. It's sitting in one of
those "car bags" and then under a car cover on the driveway that goes
around to my backyard. I'll get to it one of these days when I'm finished
with the Bus, the TransAm, the Fiero, and whatever the hell other
projects I end up with.


Todd


>I don't think you can just change out the lifters without changing the 
>cam, especially if it's damaged.  Also, the cam lobes might be flattened

>or worn if the lifters were not set correctly or stopped rotating.
> 
>I could be wrong, but I'm sure someone else will chime in...
> 
>mike
