To: ratwell(-at-)mac.com,type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Tue, 9 Dec 2003 08:53:37 -0500
From: Todd M Jaspers <toddjaspers(-at-)juno.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Bad hydraulic lifters, rant

Like I said earlier, I am no expert, but I am an expert in doing things
incorrectly. :)
It's how many of us learn to do things correctly!

After practicaly destroying the cam in my 1984 Fiero 2m4 SE (new lifters
on an old 80k mile cam). I can tell you that, it doesn't "shorten" engine
life, in the manner of speaking that say... a worn out crank bearing
might lessen the engine life. But having a cam wear down directly affects
the performance of the engine. This is where your next question comes in.
What happens when installing new lifters with an old cam, or vice versa.
Basically, whichever item is already "broken in" will be the piece that
takes the additional wear. For example... if you have a used camshaft,
and new lifters. The new lifters will take the least amount of wear, and
the camshaft will take the most amount of wear. This means that the lobes
will be worn down to the point that, well... you're going to get less
horsepower.... the lobes will wear unevenly, which will result in poor
idle, bad driveability.. etc. 

It's just as bad as if, say, you were to open up a brand new motor, and
drop in a NEW crankshaft, with used bearings. 


Todd


>I asked Steve and Debbie at Webcam some hydraulic cam questions once and
all they would say was new should go with new. Of course they >are in the
business of selling cams but what they said makes sense. Now, if the
rebuilder put in a new cam and old lifters it wouldn't seem a big >deal
to put new lifters. Does the cam wear against an old lifter that was
broken in (not passed the wear limit)?
> 
>Practically speaking if you have a bad lifter and you want to replace it
rather than split the case, how much is engine life reduced? Doesn't
anyone >know?
> 
>Put another way, after you break in a cam what happens to it that makes
putting in new lifters later a problem?
> 
>-
>Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
>http://homepage.mac.com/ratwell
>Cupertino, CA
