Date: Sat, 5 Jan 2008 15:35:47 -0500 (EST)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Busaru Hot ~ Partial Solution

On Tue, 1 Jan 2008, Busahaulic wrote:

> I paid attention only to the
> boiling temp which, at a rolling boil, is 212 degrees.
> I may be technically incorrect at that as I do not
> know if 212 is the exact moment of conversion, but am
> comfortable with using it as my guide.

If you want more precision, you have to compensate for altitude and
barometric pressure.  Here is a calculator to help with that:

http://www.csgnetwork.com/h2oboilcalc.html/

For example, at my altitude of 1250 feet and current barometric pressure
of 30.00 inches of mercury, the boiling point is 209.99F  Not much
different, since this is close to standard conditions, but if you were at
altitude on a stormy day the temperature could well be below 200F.

> The engine is still not running the temps I want it to
> run, but the real problem is with inconsistent
> circulation of the coolant. I am well aware that 30+
> feet of "radiator hoses" is the big part of the
> problem. Now I want to solve it and haven't a clear
> plan on how to proceed. Either I eliminate the
> internal water pump and thermostat and go totally
> electric water pump, or some partial combo thereof;
> the most logical being total electric with electronic
> flow regulation to dial in the pump speed based on
> coolant temp coming out of the engine.  Another
> possibility is to put the radiator at the ass end and
> eliminate the coolant flow problem, refocusing on a
> potential airflow problem!

Before you tear things apart, you should instrument your system to take
temperatures at various points.  Electronic cooking thermometers are
fairly cheap and can be used to take measurements at various locations.
If you have a metal line at the desired location, you just tape the
thermometer sensor to the metal line and then tape some fibreglass
insulation over the sensor to make sure that it stays at the pipe
temperature.  Seeing how the temperatures vary during operation will tell
you a lot about what is happening (or not happening) with your system).
it would be particularly interesting to see what the inlet temperature
does as the engine warms to operating temperature.  Is the thermostat
doing what it should?  The inlet and outlet temperatures of the radiator
would also be very interesting to see if it is doing what it should.

My observation is that most coolant flow problems are not due to long hose
runs, but due to the formation of air pockets in the system.  Having two
prominent high points in the cooling system seems to be dicy, and is even
touchy with the standard Vanagon system.

I think that the most successful conversion system is the Custom Off Road
setup with the radiator under the bus.  This eliminates the "radiator
high point" and the problems that go with it, as well as shortening the
coolent path.  COR also incorporate a large
2-litre "swirl pot" (we call it a "header tank") right after the engine
outlet to capture any circulating air in the system.  Since all the
coolent has to pass through the "swirl pot" it is more effective at
trapping air than the bypass header tanks commonly used in conversions.
They don't have any extra "bleeds" on their system since the radiator is
at the low point and the swirl pot is at the high point.  They just park
the bus with the nose low, fill the
system, and run the engine until all the air bubbles circulate to the
swirl pot and escape.  The pressure cap is on the top of the swirl pot and
goes into a conventional unpressurized reservior to keep the system full
of coolant through temperature cycling.

I don't think that the electric pump idea is particularly good, as it
adds a failure mode and doesn't really improve the system.  The
engine-driven pump (if it is an OEM Subaru pump) should work fine no
matter how long the system is.

I've seen a couple of rear-mounted radiators.  The real problem with them
is that they need a full-time fan to keep air moving through them.  To do
it right, the fan should be engine-driven, not electric, as electric fans
are not made for continuous service.  There
was a fellow at BBB a few years back that had a huge rear-mounted radiator
and still had cooling problems because he wasn't getting airflow through
it.  He was adding auxilary coolers under the bus.

Of course, with any system the stock Subaru bypass line has to be
installed to send a signal to the inlet-mounted thermostat.

George
