From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Fri, 14 Feb 2003 15:52:08 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Pressure Plate balance

In a message dated 2/14/2003 10:30:07 AM Pacific Standard Time, 
swharris(-at-)adelphia.net writes:

> How should I go about re-installing the PP to the FW with regards to keeping 
> it close to balanced?  

Hi Steve,
We have never been able to find any stock painted or stamped markings for PP 
to FW orientation.  If you look at any FW or PP you will find a number of 
drilled holes on the outer diameter of these parts.  Most of the time these 
drill marks will be in one area of the part.  The reason these drilled holes 
were made is that the FW or PP was heavy in that area, but now it could be 
still slightly heavy or even a tad bit lighter than the other side depending 
on how much the worker at the factory drilled.  So if you install the drilled 
holes in the FW & PP 180 degrees out you probably have a 50% chance of 
balancing it properly.  So most of the time we put these drilled areas 90 
degrees from each other to prevent the out of balance of the two parts to add 
up on once side and cause the engine to vibrate.
  One FW we have there are two drilled areas on it about 120 degrees from 
each other so we tried putting the PP drilled area about 120 degrees between 
the FW drilled holes.
  Worse comes to worse you should apply a mark to the PP and the mark every 
other bolt of the FW with a simular mark.  Then try each of these three 
positions of the PP to the FW and see how the engine vibrates.  If one 
definitely is better than the other two positions you can try the unmarked 
boltings to either side of that marked bolt hole for fine tuning.
  Some of you will laugh at all this, but we have found that this can make a 
huge differance in even a completely stock engine and having a badly 
vibrating engine will affect the driver over long distances due to tiring 
from the extra noise and vibration throughout the VW.  In some cases the 
engine screws will back out in less than 500 miles due to excessive 
vibration, but in that case it was due to an unbalanced piston and connecting 
rod in a friends engine from a professonal repair shop work to replace a 
blown piston.
Eric&Barb
