Date: Sat, 15 Feb 2003 04:24:10 -0800
From: Dave Dixon <ddixon(-at-)mbay.net>
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Hot Left Rear Brakes (sometimes)

     Here is the latest one that has so far evaded correction. My left 
rear brakes are dragging sometimes. The drum gets hot while the other 
three stay almost cold. This has been happening for around a month. I 
have readjusted the brakes, removed the drum around 6 times, replaced 
the shoes, replaced the brake cyl., replace the spring hardware, added 
spots of grease to prevent binding. All looks fine when its apart. Then 
I put it back together and drive it. It still gets hot.

     I'm about to focus on the emergency brake cable. Maybe it is not 
retracting. This is weird. Maybe there is residual pressure in the 
master cyl. The pedal seems to feel OK. The brakes do pull. Maybe I 
should try that dual master cyl trick that's been mentioned recently. 
What thinks ye all?

     You guys have been a great resource to me in my adventures with 
splitties. What a community you all are providing. Regardless of how 
much or how little expertise one person has, this connection is so 
supportive in the guidance feedback. Your feedback is so validating! 
Just being able to commit an idea to a discreet one or two liner, to 
articulate the problem or what is detected, for this observer is half 
the challenge. The rest is being careful with the hardware not to break 
it or to hurt myself.

     Just yesterday I hit my thumb with the ball peen hammer while 
removing my old front shocks. It is now healing and 65 combi has a new 
steering feel! And last week I replaced the drag link and that pin and 
bushing. So the eight inches of freeplay is down to just under an inch.

     I actually asked my wife if she would like to test drive the bus. 
She did. And she said she wouldn't drive it again until I fixed the turn 
signals and the speedometer. I don't want to pay too much for a speedo 
or turn signal switch so I have to be patient and keep looking.
