From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 15 Feb 2003 12:42:02 EST
To: EinsteinO2(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Speaking of 67' Master Cylinders....

Congrats on teh new bus

If the brake pedal is firm, rather that squishy, then it is bled properly.

did you adjust the shoes so they drag slightly?  If adjusteing the shoes  
(all of them, 2 shoes per wheel) so they drag slightly  doesn't help, it's 
time to

adjust the MC push rod so there is only a mm of play.  you can check this by 
lying under the front of teh bus (under pedal pan off) and pulling down the 
brake pedal by hand.  how far till the arm actually starts pushing down the 
plunger in the MC.  you'ld feel the resistance.  hear a click when the push 
rod hits the plunger.  

FWIW to check the MC an easy test is pull back the rubber dust cover.  is it 
leaking under it?  It shouldn't be.  

Never hurts to adjust the brakes.   especially if the PO installed new shoes, 
which wear down to fit the drum, which means the pedal goes down due to wear 
rather quick at first.

n a message dated 2/14/2003 6:53:52 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
EinsteinO2(-at-)aol.com writes:

<<  Upon receiving the 
 bus yesterday and driving it home, the brake pedal was nearly down to the 
 floor, stopping about 3/4 of the way down--this scared me to death 
 (thankfully I'm only 2 miles from where I picked the bus up from). The PO 
 told me that the brakes were completely gone through, with new drums being 
 put on the rear and such. I'm still learning the "Vw" ropes so I'm a little 
 bit confused as to what the problem is. It's rather disheartening as I was 
 looking forward to jumping in the bus and taking it for a long maiden 
voyage. 
 :)  But, I digress; anyway, I have adjusted the shoes, bled the brakes 
 (though the PO did so a few months ago), and there didn't seem to be much 
air 
 in the system. The master cylinder pushrod looks okay to me as well. So, I 
 took a look at the master cylinder and found it to be a very, very old 
 looking ATE one. Could this be my problem? How would I know if so? I have 
 already order a new MC just in case, as these are hard to come by as it is.  
