From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 17 Feb 2003 02:08:04 EST
To: EinsteinO2(-at-)aol.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Brakes Lights/Continuation of 67' MS Question..

If your brake lights are always on, then your MC is always depressed.  This 
is not good, so spin that nut back.  Ya like veewee was saying, the nut is a 
lock nut, and not only do you need to break that free a tad, to actually 
adjust the push rod you turn the actual rod (not on the threads) with a pair 
of pliers or vise griips.  Often it's rusty and the easiest thing is to 
remove that pin and clip that holds the push rod assembly in play, remove the 
push rod thing, get a bucket of wate rand a propae torch, hold the push rod 
thing with a par of pliers and heat it up with the torch.   Drop it into the 
bucket- it should sizzle vigorously.  Repeat.  try breaking it loose.    This 
wasy you don't bend stuff under you bus and get less junk in your eyes.  
Clean The threads, grease the threads generously and reassemble the push rod 
assembly.  reinstall lubing all moving parts.   adjust push rod by turning 
the rod which now turns easily, so that there is 1mm free play before the 
push rod hits the piston in side the MC.

hm, way too much pedal, but the pedal is firm. right?

  Are you sure you adjusted the brakes properly?    two shoes each wheel, so 
two adjusting stars each wheel.  On the back, both adjusting stars are near 
the top of the wheel, on the front on star is 180 from the other (on each 
wheel).  visualle the stars moving as you adjust it.   The star side is the 
holder, the bit the star screw to is on the shoe.   So if the shoe is to the 
right and below the star,(star at top of wheel) prying the star up 
(screwdriver end goes down) is screwing the star away from the shoe.  This 
pushes the shoe against the drum.   Just double check all shoes are close to 
the drum, just touching (barely dragging), as it's easy to get it mixed up.   
 I use the Muir method, tighten all the way till you can't move the wheel, 
then back it off till it just drags. 

In a message dated 2/15/2003 4:45:40 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
EinsteinO2(-at-)aol.com writes:

<< Thanks again for the responses in regard to my dilemma. I now have very 
little play in the pedal, as well as a nice braking motion (not pulls to 
either side). I'm assuming this is all that I need to do for now? 
Nonetheless, I now have a new problem--my brake lights will not go out. :(  I 
replaced both brake lights switches today as well, as they were defective. 
The strange thing is this: if I loosen the adjusting nut on the MS push rod 
back toward where it was before, the brake lights will go off, and then 
function normally when I depress and let up on the pedal (though then I am 
back to having way too much play in the pedal). As soon as I start tightening 
it and get to a certain point they come on again. I'm really frustrated at 
this point. :(  Again, any help would be greatly welcomed and much 
appreciated. 
