Date: Mon, 27 May 2002 17:21:07 -0700
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] head stud came out - won't thread back in

I see you have a '74.  Sounds like someone has plugged the air-injection 
(not EGR, right Karl?  :)) ports with some custom studs.  Kinda/sorta cool 
idea to use studs with a slot in the top, but I wonder what keeps them from 
going all the way into the exhaust ports?

Anyway on to your problem.  For some reason the stud won't catch now.  Have 
you examined the end of the stud for damage to the threads?  It's likely 
there is none, since the stud is steel and the head is aluminum.  Any 
aluminum shavings on the end of the stud?  That would be a bad sign.  Or, 
if the engine has been run for any length of time with a loose or 
nonexistant stud, the threads could have gotten clogged up with carbon.  If 
you could find a long tap you might be able to clean the threads up enough 
to get the stud started.  Not sure if you could find a tap that long or 
not.  You could also try shooting some good solvent (like Mopar heat valve 
penetrant or kroil) into the hole to clean the threads out.

If that fails, what to do?  If you're not running the stock air-injection 
(most people aren't) those ports are a big headache.  Best bet would be to 
find some other heads without the ports and put them on.  If you're very 
attached to those particular heads, you might be able to have the holes 
welded up from the inside, but that would require head removal and 
disassembly.  I suspect you're looking for a more short-term solution.  I 
don't normally advocate these types of fixes but this is one case where 
some low brow repairs might be your best bet.  I would start by leaning on 
the bolt.  It might thread in with a little pressure.  True, this may 
damage the threads but at this point they are probably damaged 
anyway.  With luck you will be able to get it started and in a few turns 
before it becomes too difficult to turn with a screwdriver.  At that point, 
it will have sealed the hole and probably won't come out.  Next time you 
have the engine out, replace the head or weld the hole up.  If that fails 
you could try a certain SAE-thread bolt that is close to the same size as 
the (M8 I think) metric stud and see if you can get that threaded in.  I 
went thousands of miles with such bolts in my '74 GEX heads when I had the 
same problem as you.  Well, my problem was that the threads were already 
stripped when I bought the heads (rebuilt, with worthless warranty).  GEX 
sucks.

As for driving without the hole plugged, it's technically just a hole in 
the exhaust but I wouldn't cross a state with it that way.  It will be very 
loud and spew exhaust gas into your engine compartment.  Find a way to plug 
that hole.

-David

At 09:23 PM 5/26/2002, Eric W. Bradway wrote:
>This is the third time this has happened - what I assume is a head stud (it
>looks like a valve adjust screw - threaded like a bolt but with a common
>screwdriver slot in one end). It worked its way out of a hole in the head
>just forward of the intake manifold on cylinder #3. The first time this
>happened, I was able to just screw it back in. Then it happened on cylinder
>#4 - which I screwed back in. Now #3 is out again and I can't get it to
>thread right.
>
>I cleaned up the threads on the stud as best I can, but I can't seem to get
>it to catch. This is all by feel as the hole is really impossible to see
>(and yes, I'm using some lock-tite this time). I need to try to fix it in
>the morning as I'm driving to Atlanta and then on to Florida this week.
>
>Any thoughts? What is the worst that can happen if I just leave it out
>until I get to Florida? Once there I can drop the engine and really figure
>out what's going on...

