From: jrivers(-at-)globalserve.net
To: vanagon(-at-)frontleftspeakerposse.com
Cc: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 05 Jun 2006 12:26:35 -0400
Subject: Re: broken oil strainer bolt?

chris writes: 

> there does appear to be a proper/consistent amount of space between the 
> bottom of the bell at the sump bottom, but there is also a bit of up/down 
> play when you touch this bell.

> I have a list of 4 local shops and my AAA ready to go for tomorrow 
> morning.
> If this is what it sounds like, where the bottom part of the case has to 
> be replaced, what all am I looking at having done anyway, and any random 
> guesses as to the cost involved? 
> 
> im guessing it's not as costly as a rebuild, but labor-wise its probably 
> getting pretty close.

Hi Chris
There is a lot to look at when you posed with this problem....
As karl said
Um, I am confused here. There is no 'lower part' of the case to be replaced. 
Your engine case has a left half and a right half, matched as a case. Other 
than seeing how bad the damage to the case itself is and maybe a temporary 
repair until you get another case or engine assembly, there is no such thing 
as 'replacing the bottom of the case'.
Also Mark offered a solution to use a longer thru bolt,, and JB weld the pan 
in place.....
Ned said
This will probably sound like heresy to most of the list, but when I broke 
that bolt I used JB Weld to hold it in, keeping my fingers crossed for about 
3 years until I was ready to rebuild. Never gave me any problems except 
maybe the occasional drop of oil. When I broke it, I heard a piece snap off 
and drop, so it was pretty severe. 

I have driven a 2 liter that unknowing to me had this repair done...  see.. 
I never touch that strainer bolt so I don't get into this pickle... so I 
drove for 40k miles before I found out and the repair was still holding 
fine.
The thru bolt needs to be snug in place or someway of sealing that case hole 
or it will be an oil leak.. and a vac leak which can cause the EFi to run 
poorly.
The pan needs to be sealed in place which can be done without tooo much 
trouble...
I would never recommend this type of repair as you can't tell if the pickup 
tube will rattle out of place.. most likely not... or if the pan fastening 
method will hold,,  probably will.... but Murphy has a way of making this 
fail on the day you really depend on it not to............ 

But if you decide to dismantle that engine and repair it... be prepared for 
the worst. 

The hole boss will have to be repaired.. let's say you have it welded... and 
retapped.. then machined to accept that pickup tube ring... you'll probably 
find the cam saddle is distorted by the heat.. and the case will need align 
boring and oversized bearings inserted.  ...  Plus whatever else you "may as 
well freshen up while it is apart" 

I bet this can cost way more than a rebuild of a acceptable core case. ..... 

That is the outlook I had recently when I found the repair on the engine I 
was running... so I took it all apart.. and slid everything into another 
used ready to go case.  I know what the costs are on that plan.... but I 
could forsee one thing after another costing more and more if I tried to 
repair the broken case. 

Hope that helps.
Jamie Rivers
