From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 12 Nov 2002 23:47:22 EST
To: raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com, res0urdr(-at-)verizon.net,
Subject: Re: [VB] Switches for a '67

Hey, I think I still have the switch Ray, just have to get out to the garage 
to check the box I think it's in.  please bug me again if I forget as I have 
my nose in a text book or i'm in the lab most of the time these days, or why 
not come round this weekend?  did you still want those torsion bars?

Re the sloppy switch on the 67 in Portland, If I remember right the screws 
thread into the half moon piece.hm.. I think so, but correct me if I have it 
backwards.
 If undoing the switch and wrapping the column with electrical tape (or 
sticky bandage tape for a white steering column)and reattaching the switch 
doesn't work, 

 like If the threads are buggered you could  tape the half moon piece to a 
slightly larger size thread and use larger screws. 

Is it the screws that are the issue?

If you want to be OG, you can replace the half circle side w/ out disturbing 
the electric portion.

In a message dated 11/12/2002 6:11:40 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com writes:

<< Hey, fizzled switches are NOT good. If it was just bad shorting contacts
 then replacing is OK, but if there is a high current short somewhere, don't
 install another switch until you figure that out! As far as the turn signal
 goes, if the switch itself is OK but the threads are stripped out of the
 housing, just helicoil the housing. That will save one good switch assembly.
 If the whole thing is shot give Clara a holler, she might still have one. I
 was bugging her for one for my SC because the switch is bad but the housing
 is OK. You can have first dibs if she can find it. Otherwise, Clara, I still
 want to buy that switch!
 
 67 Single Cab, DP 1641cc 34PICT-3 
 71 Trike 1776cc 28/36  Pinto Progressive
 VolksAir 1585cc 28 PICT
 Ray, Kent WA
 Bernoulli Interval: Do I really have enough data to draw a valid conclusion
 ?
