Date: Tue, 08 Apr 2003 23:50:43 -0500
From: "The Johnson's" <bugnbat(-at-)swbell.net>
To: Buskatiers <buskatiers(-at-)buskatiers.org>, Vintagebus
Subject: bus update

Well, I called England today and my safari's and popout frames are
officially on their way!  Meanwhile I have kept busy, Clementine now has
new interior panels (grey, mesh grey), and seat upholstry to match.  I
now have to tackle my headliner.  Does anyone have any secrets to 21
window headliner installation?  Where do I start?  Is there supposed to
be padding under the headlining and if so does it cover the sides as
well.  My Bentley is doing me next to no good on these questions.

   You know you have a good wife when you haven't seen her for more than
20 minutes in the last three weeks and she is still willing to let you
go into the garage.

I am still working on getting pictures taken of clementine in her new
digs, my digital camera does not have flash so I will need to wait to
sol breaks over the horizon (I tried using the garage lights and you
could barely tell it was a bus in the picture)

Another question, I am planning to fabricate some kick panels to go
under the rear and middle seats, what material is suggested for the
backing?  also what is the best way to attach the kick panel to the seat
frame?  (I was thinking of using some hardware that is shaped like a "M"
with the top vee of the m being rounded out to hold the bar, I have
something like this holding some screen rods up in my house and I think
it would work.)

Yet still more questions, you can tell I have been holding back lately.
I took apart one of my headlight assembles and the large wire that the
headlight adjusting screws mount to broke in half do to corrosion
issues, should I try to make this part out of something else?  If so
what do I use and if not does anyone have that wire bail for sale or
trade?

Finally does anyone want to buy a house in Stillwater, Oklahoma?  I am
selling it and soon will be on the road full time (hence the level of
work on the bus and trailer), this is a great place and it comes with a
splitty bus bed that is almost actual size.  The bed is pink on purple
with chrome trim, working headlights, auto brake night lights, decking
up top and reverse "safari" desks built-in (they fold in and from the
bottom to make a desk surface), it holds two twin mattresses, has wheel
cutouts, side storage, and you guessed it a vw emblem up front (don't
tell vwoa, they might take it from me).  There is not another one like
it on the planet.  Unfortunately it might have to be chain-sawed to get
it out of the room it is in if the new owners don't want it.
  I also will be selling my 98 TDI beetle soon (end of May) if anyone is
interested its an early one, #8686 off of the line, with 61,000 miles.

Take care bus people, I'm getting to tired to type
    Tim Johnson
          and
    Clementine
