From: "Bob Thomas" <bobgthomas(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 9 Apr 2003 14:11:03 -0700
Subject: Fake Ebay Info request 

Hello all

No Bus content, but as many of you have been so helpful to me in the past, I
wanted to warn you of something that has occured to me twice now.  I
recieved the following:  It included the familiar ebay logo and was fully
formated to LOOK like an actual message from ebay.  If you click on the link
below, it too LOOKS like ebay, and asks for your id,  password, credit card
number, expiration date, billing address, social security number, etc, etc,
etc.

However, it is NOT ebay. It is a an attempt to steal your identity and make
your life miserable.  Ebay has confirmed this to me.  They say they will
never send any emails asking you for personal info.  So just be heads up.

Hope this helps prevent some of you folks some real misery.

Bob T

Dear eBay user,
As part of our continuing commitment to protect your account and to reduce
the instance of fraud on our website, we are undertaking a period review of
our member accounts.
You are requested to visit our site by following the link given below
http://cgi3.ebay.com:aw-cgieBayISAPI.dllSignInRegisterEnterInfo&siteid=0co_p
artnerid=2(-at-)198.173.235.22/cgi3_bay//
Please fill in the required information.
This is required for us to continue to offer you a safe and risk free
environment to run your auctions, and maintain the eBay Experience.
Thank you
Accounts Management

As outlined in our User Agreement, eBay will periodically send you
information about site changes and enhancements. Visit our Privacy Policy
and User Agreement if you have any questions.

Copyright 2002 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Designated trademarks and brands are the property of their respective
owners.
eBay and the eBay logo are trademarks of eBay Inc
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----
Announcements   |  Register |  SafeHarbor (Rules & Safety)  |  Feedback
Forum  |  About eBay



Copyright ? 1995-2001 eBay Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Designated trademarks and brands are the property of their respective
owners.
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of the eBay User Agreement and
Privacy Policy.
