Date: Wed, 09 Apr 2003 18:15:02 -0400
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
From: Jeff Scarbrough <fishplate(-at-)charter.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] Dead on the road

At 03:12 PM 4/9/03 -0500, you wrote:
>   If you can find someone with a crank dowel hole jig you can do it
>yourself. These are the jigs used for 8 doweling a crank and flywheel. It
>is easy and can be done fairly quick.
>----------------------- Clip --------------------
>I think I'd spend the money to get the van back home and do the job right
>with a new crank and flywheel.
>Store your bus somewhere.
>Ride the Grey Dog Bus home and come back with a trailer / tow bar / tow
>dolly and get your bus.
>If you don't do the job right you'll never be able to leave town in it
>for distant locations without that nagging feeling and having anal
>twinges at every tiny noise.

Well, yeah, but for every recommendation, there's an anecdote to the 
contrary...

Many years ago, I was visiting my parents in Florida.  I set out for the 
550 mile journey back to my home and got only about 60 miles when there was 
a terrible THUMP from the back of the bus.  Quick inspection showed some 
kind of fatal flaw, so I found a phone and arranged for a trailer ride back 
to my parent's house, where my brother and I had a storage shed full of 
junk parts.  While waiting for the tow, I pulled the engine (I was bored, 
yanked it out onto the spare tire) and found out my crankshaft had broken.

When we got the bus back to my folks' house, I rooted in the junk pile and 
found an old used short block that had sat around for at least five 
years.  I blew the cockroaches out with an air hose, and slapped my old 
pistons, cylinders and heads onto the block, screwed the tin on, and 
dragged it down the street to get it started.  I figured if I was lucky, I 
would get close to home before it blew up.  Sure enough, I was less than a 
mile from home when I heard a sound like a big bird caught in the engine 
room, and the gen light came on.  When I looked, I found the noise was the 
belt flying to pieces - I rolled a new one on (it had been a looooong day), 
bought a case of beer, and drove on home.

That motor that I threw together as an emergency went on to power that bus 
for over four years, until I decided my luck could be pushed no farther....

Amazing machines, these things we drive....


Jeff
67 Westfalia Campmobile
67 Doppelkabinepritschenwagen
