Date: Mon, 25 Aug 2003 15:26:06 -0600
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: "Chuck Harvey" <charvey(-at-)airmail.net>
From: Stevie Havoc <s.havoc(-at-)telus.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Auxiliary batteries

Chuck,

Currently I have Dual Batteries in my 73 Safare.

I have a deep cycle battery to run the "house" electrics and a Canadian 
Tire battery for the "go" electrics (Starter, Headlight, Coil etc.).

To charge the "house" battery I have a Hella relay from Bus depot which 
will allow you to charge both your "go" battery and "house" battery at 
once without them discharging into one another, which is important when 
the bus is off so they dont drain one into the other. When you setup 
the Hella relay it is designed to only "open" when you turn the bus on 
(Ignition on), mine goes to a spare spot on my 12v coil.

I've been running this setup for 3 months now, and its working out 
great. I have a fuse panel for the "house" and a modified sine wave 
inverter which powers my Sound (Stereo, Amp, 2 Subs and 10 Speakers) 
and my entertainment system (15" flatscreen, linux system, wireless 
networking) as well as an aux heater and the lights inside the bus. How 
long the battery will last depends on what you are drawing on it. I've 
never turned everything on at once and and let her run down, but I've 
been able to watch "The Boondock Saints" with the sound up loud and 
then leave my mp3 player playing tunes all night long without any 
trouble (With the bus off)

If you are planning on running sensitive electronics (I'm guessing 
Health stuff is sensitive) MAKE SURE you buy a good inverter, one with 
a modified sine-wave. A normal generic inverter will fry anything 
sensitive. I blew 3 power-supplies in my entertainment system before 
figuring this one out. Also make sure it has an output that matches 
your draw (300w with 500w surge etc.) I have a Xantrex inverter in my 
bus, they do make some fancy inverter/charger units which are cool, but 
pricey, we have one in our boat.

The one thing I haven't put in, which is silly considering, is a 
voltmeter to check the charge in the "house" battery, this is going in 
later in the week as is an "in-car" trickle charger to give me a sort 
of "shore" charge when possible. When I put in the voltmeter I will be 
able to give you a better idea what kind of dent I am making in the 
deep cycle and how long she lasts. The only stat I know for sure is 
that I left my laptop charging from the inverter by accident overnight 
and the "house" battery was still charging it in the morning, the 
laptop draws a puny 65w but its an indicator.

I don't know if all this is what you were looking for, but if you have 
any questions or want pics drop me a line.

Steve
