From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Mon, 25 Aug 2003 23:23:41 -0500 (CDT)
To: schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net (David Schwarze)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] towing

David,
I apologize----

I read your message in response to a message in rebuttal to shocks vs.
paying the big load and having the torsion bars adjusted---

Let me do the saved mail thing and research the first original message
in it's entirety---

I am almost sure you shaved a bit off the original context of ths
message---

And yes--I am a suspension expert.
It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out overload shocks will
not ever replace stock spring / torsion bar ride height.
They might supplement the factory load specifications--but never replace
them.

Gas shocks or any new shocks will give anyone the illision of correct,
factory ride height---but not for long---gravity, with age will
prevail--


Later,

Terry


E-mail message

From: schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net (David Schwarze) Date: Mon, Aug 25, 2003,
10:38pm To: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K) Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com Subject:
Re: [T2] towing
At 09:10 AM 8/25/2003, Terry K wrote:
Here's the problem with that theory--
It's not a theory.
Your asking a shock absorber to do the work of the suspension unit,
which is not only unsafe, it's not the long term solution.
Not true, the shock is only doing the job it was designed for. If you
read my message again, I was talking about gas-charged shocks, NOT
coilover shocks (although I did compare them to coilovers).

A load leveller devise was intended to supplement the factory suspension
unit--not be the main carrier of the load.

Although this is a completely different subject, coilovers do not "carry
the main load". They supplement the factory torsion bars!!!

But again, I was comparing stock shocks to gas-charged. I did not tell
anyone to go out and get coilovers.

The correct way to do this would be to first adjust the suspension unit
back to it's stock ride height, and then add the shock of your choice.

Gas shocks will raise the rear end vs. oil shocks. Fact, not theory.

A shock absorber was designed to control the rebounding of the vehicle
after it wallows into a dip or hole--not be the vehicles main suspension
unit, or spring.

I didn't know you were a suspension expert. But read my reply again - it
is all factual and accurate. If you disagree, please point out the
specific inaccuracies so I may learn from your vast knowledge of
suspension design.
Not 100% correct----
Yes, it is.

Here is my 100% accurate post again:

Can't agree with you 100% Joel. When I swapped out my dead rear shocks
for KYB Gas-Adjusts a few years ago, the rear of the bus did come up a
little. I think it was 1/2", or about half the amount that the Monroe
coilover shocks raised it. Oil filled shocks will not affect ride height
but gas charged shocks do have a bit of lift associated with them. And
1/2" is more than you think.
