Date: Tue, 26 Aug 2003 16:51:21 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Gould <franklinstower48(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] RE: tuned exhaust-empi is lame

My latest empi muffler that has failed, empi won't replace!  They said it failed because I installed it myself and it wasn't installed by the shop where I purchased it.  Saying that if I had used the hanger properly, it would not have failed.  The Ironic thing about that statement is the hanger clamp they provided me the first time would no way fit around the extractor tube and be in a position that I could bolt it to the hanger as recommended.  So when empi replaced it, the did not provide the hanger clamp and provided instead a band clamp.  Now the band clamp, which goes around the extractor tube and through the welded  hanger on muffler, has pulled the seam apart on the muffler!  So they are now selling a product that they can't stand behind or replace under a 90 day warranty!
 
Also I have gone through a set empi carb filters for my dellorto's.  They have both failed at the tack weld on the base plate of the filter assembly.  I had to tig weld them back together and they have broken again in a different place.  My welds held, their steel didn't!  Empi won't replace this either.  I am fortunate that none of the pieces of these lame ass filter assemblies did not fall into my cylinders and destroy a new engine!
 
Paul

ARoman4047(-at-)aol.com wrote:

In a message dated 8/26/03 7:06:53 PM, franklinstower48(-at-)yahoo.com writes:

<< The EMPI products that suck have come from China....

Paul
>>

I don't mind (and don't buy) the junk tools and products that fill the
blister packs in the $1 Stores or Odd Lot Stores... But what irks me
is the use of "real" names on products that fall apart even when I've
made a point to purchase something I thought was a quality product.
I've given up faulting the factory/country where the product is made,
since it seems to be a total lack of any concern by the mother com-
pany for quality control over products that carry their name. I can't
believe "competition" is so fierce over these products, that price is 
the only factor...I wonder if the profit margin is so great with these
inferior products, that it doesn't matter how many come back or have
to be replaced... ?-(

Tony in NJ
W.A.S.T.E.
