Date: Sun, 22 Jan 2006 21:43:20 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Blinker woes again

> From: Seth Matteson <1matteson(-at-)earthlink.net>
> Date: Tue, 17 Jan 2006 20:26:22 -0500 (GMT-05:00)
>
> Now, where before I only had the right rear blinker not working with the
> headlights on, all of my blinkers don't work.

At the flasher relay, next to the fuse box, you should have three wires:

1. blue - arrow light in the speedo (K on original flasher)
2. black/white/green and black/purple on same connector - unswitched
    feed from battery (+ on original flasher)
3. two black/white/green on same connector - pulsating voltage to turn
    signal switch (S on original flasher)

First, pull #1 (blue) off of the flasher, and turn on the ignition.  You
should be able to make the arrow light in the speedo light up by grounding
the blue wire to the body.  You should be able to do this regardless of
the position of the headlight switch or dash light dimmer.

Next, pull #2 and #3 off of the flasher, and connect them to one another.
This effectively replaces the flasher with a piece of wire, so your
outside turn signals should be on all the time.  When you flip the turn
signal lever to one side, the front and rear turn signal lights on that
side should come on and stay on.  Try each side by itself, then while
stepping on the brakes with the key on, then with the parking lights on,
then with the brakes and parking lights on.  (Note that the arrow light
in the speedo WILL NOT LIGHT UP during any of these tests.)  If anything
is not as expected, the problem is NOT in the flasher!  It can be many
places but the most likely are the grounds at the rear lights, and inside
the turn signal switch.

One way to think of a turn signal flasher is as a self-resetting circuit
breaker that is slightly undersized for the load of the turn signal
lamps.  If you don't draw enough current through it, like if one of your
lamps is burned out or has a bad connection, it won't start flashing.

Matt Roberds
