Date: Sun, 24 Oct 2004 19:58:16 -0700
From: Don Tuleja <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Yet another small victory!

Problem: Backfiring when decelerating or at slight throttle.

Here are the possible problems running through my mind:
Exhaust leak (Yep, got one. Trying to find someone to put inserts in
my heads, stupid exhaust studs are all loose. Last shop I had do one
refused on Friday. Said they don't work on old VW's. WTF?)

Vaccum advance line in wrong place. This was put into my head by Colin
(Amskeptic on The Samba) because he told me the port on the carb base
was the wrong place. But it seems to advance properly so I dunno...

Carbs out of balance. I have a balance tool, but haven't tried to use
it yet. I'm afraid if it's actually good and I mess with it... well,
you know.

Wanna know what actually fixed it? I'm stunned...

The idle intake pipe on the left carb (stock dual solex's) needs to
connect to the restricted port on the air cleaner. Not having the
fancy elbows I had just run a hose long enough to loop out so it
wouldn't pull itself off the connectors. About 2 feet long. Seemed
fine at idle, so didn't think it was any kind of problem.

Well, with my last Bus Depot order I got the elbows. They were just a
couple of bucks and I figured I'd at least get that thing looking
nicer. Today I finally hit Autozone and handed them an elbow and said
to give me some vacuum that fit very snugly inside the small opening.
I didn't pay attention to the size, but it fit nicely.

Took the elbows and line outside, put the elbows on, cut the hose so
it has a very slight bend to it, about 8" I suppose, and hooked it all
up.

OMG! The idle ran up to 1500rpm. Kicked it back down, and now it runs
SWEET! I can decelerate, use very light throttle where appropriate,
etc. No backfiring! Just sweet music!

Ok, can someone tell me why a long hose wouldn't work, but this little
one with the elbows would?



-- 
Don Tuleja
Great White:
http://www.donimages.com/1973bus/
