Date: Mon, 25 Oct 2004 01:36:47 -0700
From: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Engine seized

I spent a 2nd Sunday working on my friend's newly purchased 72 bus. We
replaced the cleaned out the engine compartment, replaced the engine seal,
some vacuum hoses, changed the oil in the air cleaner and overhauled the
ignition (pertronix, new rotor and cap), reset the timing (did the valves,
plugs, wires the previous week), lubed the throttle linkage and fixed the
side marker wiring.

There were two problems we couldn't rectify. The first was a slightly drippy
oil pressure switch but I couldn't find my 24mm deep socket to replace it.
It was leaking from the top not the bottom. The second was a crumbled oil
breather box gasket and I couldn't locate my spare.

We test drove the bus for 20 minutes and then took a later trip to dinner
and the bus ran fine both times. After dinner, my friend left for home and I
got a call from the road side call box not long after he left.

He got about 5 miles away before the engine died on the highway. He tells me
that it jerked, lost power, the brake pedal became hard and the gas pedal
was ineffective. He coasted to the side of the road and went to take a look
at the engine and there was white smoke in the compartment. No electrical
wires were burned but the wires on the idle cutoff was come off. He put the
wire back on the terminal and called the tow truck.

I met him at the parking lot where we work and the tow truck driver had just
left. The van had been towed from the front with the transmission in
neutral. I've always preferred a backwards tow...

We checked the coil for power and after a visual check of the engine we
tried to start it but to no avail. The solenoid seemed to engage but the
starter wouldn't turn the engine over. The battery is almost brand new.

I noticed that the voltage at the coil dropped from 12v to 8v during the
attempt to start which I thought odd. Thinking about the current draw of a
non moving electric motor causing a voltage drop like that, it gave me the
idea that the starter wasn't being allow to spin. I put the engine in gear I
tried to roll the bus downhill in the parking lot and it wouldn't budge.

The engine seems to be seized. What should we check next? There is plenty of
oil in the crankcase but the difficulty starting and the slight hesitation
we've experienced makes me think it was beginning to seize before he bought
it and it was just a matter of time before the inevitable happened.

The engine never appeared overheated to me at any time prior.

-- 
Richard, 1978 Westfalia CDN
http://www.ratwell.com/
Cupertino, CA
