Date: Mon, 25 Oct 2004 04:02:21 -0500
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
To: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)shagadelic.org>
From: David Schimpf <dschimpf(-at-)charter.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] CDI Question

On Sunday, October 24, 2004, at 12:04 PM, Jason Thorpe wrote:

> I just ordered my CDI set-up from ACN yesterday.  I am assuming that 
> your '76 has the stock FI?  If so, did you need the tach adapter in 
> order to trigger the FI properly?  I included one in my order "just in 
> case".

Dear Jason,

No, someone in the past put in the dreaded Weber progressive, which 
actually seems to run all right, although I'd prefer the original FI. I 
don't know why you'd need the tach adapter, but what do I know?
>
> I'm looking forward to hooking mine up.  With the price of gas out 
> here, 3-4 MPG improvement could save me a lot of money (and pay for 
> the CDI rather quickly).

The improvement was remarkable. Although I'm not driving the bus now 
(bad rear wheel bearing), I recently installed a SVDA (I ran it this 
summer with an 009 [I know, I know] with a Pertronix) and upped the 
main jets a little. I'm hoping that change will enable to me to run all 
day at about 65 rather than 62; if I kept it at 62 (real speed), the 
engine oil temps stayed at about 210-220; if 65 it tended to get 
higher, not too high, but I found I could use the oil temp gauge as a 
speedometer. I don't need to be driving faster than 65 consistently. 
The additional drag created by the high top, both from the front and 
especially from the side, makes me leery about driving much faster than 
that regularly. It handles reasonably well, but gusts of wind from 
semis or nature make things interesting if there's someone driving next 
to me. :-)

The bus was running really well when the rear bearing fried heading to 
a Labor Day campout (figures). What was equally impressive was the fact 
that throughout our trip west (early June-mid July), whether in the 
humid low plains of Wisconsin and Minnesota, the dry plains and 
badlands of the Dakotas, the high plains of Wyoming and Montana, or up 
and down a bunch of passes in the Rockies, it ran significantly cooler 
than comparable situations in the past, and with much more power. Going 
down the mountains was just as hairy as usual, though, with the much 
higher center of gravity with the high top. I'm thinking I might have 
my passengers lean into the curves next time, like in a sailboat ("all 
right now, everyone lean starboard"). :-)
>
> I'm considering using a wiring harness plug to connect the CDI to the 
> ignition system, and wiring another "jumper plug" that would allow me 
> to quickly go back to stock.  Anyone done this with their CDI set-up?

It's really not that hard to switch back and forth. The biggest thing 
would be having some extra spark plugs sitting around already gapped to 
the stock position, since you should open up the plugs with the CDI to 
get the maximum benefits. Also, the coil connections are probably 
different, as with the CDI you only have the two wires connected to the 
coil.

By any chance, did you get a new coil? We got the most powerful one 
from ACN that could be used both with the stock system and the CDI. I 
too wanted to be able to switch back to stock if necessary. I suspect 
the change of coil also affected our results.

Best wishes,

David Schimpf
Fond du Lac, WI
76 Hi-Top Westy: Guactoo
