Date: Tue, 2 Nov 2004 01:16:37 -0600 (CST)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Speeding, Cooling, and Over-reving

>From: Clark Smith <clarksville(-at-)mac.com>
>Date: Mon, 01 Nov 2004 13:42:32 -0800
>
>I would love to have a tach, oil pressure gauge, and temp gauge and
>ammeter.

The tach can be as simple as hanging your tune-up tach on the dash and
running a long wire out one of the windows, in the engine vents, to the
wire between the coil and the distributor.  That's at least good for
you to drive for a few days and figure out how the road speed and engine
speed match up in each gear.

The oil pressure and temperature are a little more involved, but still
doable.  If you decide you're going to run a lot of gauges, you might
try to get some multi-wire cable.  It's commonly sold as trailer light
cable with four 14 or 16 gauge wires; if you dig around a little you
can find cables with more wires.  With the cable, you can run the wire
for up to four gauges (excluding cylinder heat temperature) at once.

On a Bus, hooking up an ammeter in the usual way is probably not that
good of an idea.  You'd have to run a fat cable from the back to the
front and then to the back again, which would be a lot of voltage
drop.  A better way is to use an ammeter that is set up to use a
shunt... then the shunt can go back by the engine and some tiny wires
can run to the meter.  A voltmeter is much easier to hook up and gives
nearly the same information.

>The speedo doesn't work and the fuel sender isn't sending, so I hear
>a nightmare awaits me (requiring cutting or something).

Maybe.  If the sender is bad, you either have to cut a hole in the
body above the tank to get it out, or drop the engine and take the
tank out to get it out.  But make sure you need to do that, first:
http://www.type2.com/~splittyreflect/msg58390.html .  Your Bus won't
have the in-line connector near the fuel tank, but you should be able
to unplug the wire from the sender, which is equivalent -- you'll
have to reach over the fan housing and work by Braille but you can
probably do it.

Matt Roberds
