Date: Mon, 20 Aug 2001 20:42:17 -0500
From: Rick Taylor <BusBarn(-at-)prodigy.net>
To: Adam Narraway <adam(-at-)harbourfront.on.ca>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Gasoline Heaters in Busses

> 3. Install a Propex or similar propane heater designed for interior
> inswtall.
> DO NOT put a gasoline heater in the passenger compartment -Unless you
> can make an isolation chamber that allows outside air to come in for
> combustion and prevent any intrusion of accidental combustion products
> or leaking fittings.  I saw an internal install of a BN4 behind the
> passenger seat, pic available to anyone asking, very scary!

Adam,

Installing a gas heater is a great idea and can be installed in the
passenger compartment with much less danger than installing a propane
heater.  A propane heater will eat up oxygen, put out large amounts of water
and can if not running correctly, put out carbon monixide.  I have on
occasion used a portable propane heater when I didn't have a gasoline
heater, but always kept the windows down a bit, but in the morning, the
windows always had a lot of moisture on the inside.

I have been working on gasoline heaters off and on for about 30 years.  Of
all the nay sayers that say gasoline heaters are fire hazards, I say, show
me one that has been on fire!!  I have never seen a gasoline heater that has
caught fire, can I say that about VW engines?  Just like anything, if gas
heaters are maintained and fuel lines replaced, you will get many trouble
free hours from them.  Gas heaters have a fresh air intact for the
combustion chamber and an exhaust pipe that takes away the fumes.  All you
get from a properly working gas heater is clean, warm, dry air.

I have seen many nice cabin installed heaters.  Heck, VW sold an under dash
model.  VW also installed gas heaters OVER the gas tank in bugs!!  What does
that tell you about how safe they are?  Gas heaters are installed in
everything from airplanes to tanks.  Every Covair had a gas heater.

As I have found replacement parts for my own gas heaters in short supply, I
have started a company to get tune up parts and information out to those who
want to tune up their South Wind heaters that were dealer installed and
serviced.  Many feel the South Wind to be a lesser heater than the BN4's,
but they are easier to get parts for and easy to fix.  South Winds are also
plentiful at almost any swap meet I have been to.

Don't listen to people who have never been educated on gasoline heaters,
they are coming to their conclusions strickly on opionion, not fact.

Ramblings of an old Shop Teacher,
Rick Taylor
Berryton, KS
Smack Dab in the Middle of the USA





