Date: Wed, 22 Aug 2001 09:19:36 -0700
From: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: I'm baaaaack, but I got a problem

Hey Everyone,
I'm back from my trip with my bus from Seattle.  I had a great trip, but
I'll give the trip report after I get the bus fixed and registered and
smogged, etc... here's my prob:

It's a 78 westy, FI.  We were driving through bakersfield, CA, about 20
miles from the grapevine, going about 70mph, and it was REALLY hot
outside (musta been around 90 yesterday).  My friend is driving and all
of sudden he said the speed just dropped from 70 to 60 and he didn't
have power.  We *immediately* pulled over because I saw the oil light
flash on and shut off the engine.

I went to the back and popped the engine lid.  I found oil splattered
about the engine compartment, along the engine lid, and around the
cooling fan, noticeably around the oil breather.  Just FYI, this engine
didn't leak a DROP of oil the entire trip from washington to
backersfield, CA.  We let the car sit for a little while, kinda freaking
out that we were stuck on the other side of the grapevine with a broken
bus.. 

We walked around a little to the gas station, couldn't find a service
station so went back to the car.  We sat for a little and thought about
stuff.  I started the car again and the oil light did not come on again
unless the idle dropped kinda low.  That was normal.  I gave it some
rpms and then pressure light went out..  it was idling funny.. timing
was a little retarded about 4 degrees instead of the usual 7.5.  I left
it there because 3 degrees prolly wouldn't hurt much anyways.  I figured
it would run cooler in its disabled state anyways.

It was burning a little oil because I saw some whitish smoke, and it was
idling rough.  We finally figured that we might as well give it a try
and see what happens.  We let it run a little, oil light was not on, and
it drove about 50 on level ground, hazard lights on.

We stopped at another gas station and talked to a nice guy from san
diego who was towing a 75 bus back from oregon.  He thought that I might
have overheated and messed up a cylinder and am possibly getting some
blow-by which would explain why there was oil around the oil breather
area.  We then decided that we'd just limp the bus up the grapevine in
2nd and it actually made it all the way to long beach (about 120 miles)
doing 30 up the grapevine (slower than the trucks) and then coasted on
the downhills (pfew!!)

So, I will do a compression test on the engine to see what's up.  I also
noticed there was steam coming out of the oil filler tube when I filled
it (it was losing oil very slowly).  

Does anyone have any ideas.  I'm prolly gonna drop the engine and put my
76 engine in for the time-being while I fix this one and then put it
back in...

Thanks!
Mike

-- 
[...]
