Date: Wed, 17 May 2006 04:57:47 -0700 (PDT)
From: Chai <standingbearz(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: "Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com>, type2(-at-)type2.com,
Subject: re:  [T2]Fan Pulley type 1 motor 

 thanks Ray and Will and most of all Dr Phil.....
  he brought me a older version of the fan pulley... and when i mean old i mean not one of the newer deals they sale these days....
   
  seems the fan pulley was worn out and someone PO had replaced it with one of these new deals....
   
  when i got the other pulley from phil the wife and i put it on and what a difference just trying to slide it onto the shaft and key... it fit the shaft with no looseness as the one coming off....
  the metal in it seems flemzie and cheap compared to the older version i was given to put on there.....
  so far so good.... seems to fixed it and now no screaming fan pulley or generator and the belt looks happy now....
   
  thanks alot for the help guys 
  the wife says thanks as well... now she can drive her new car and break in that new engine....
   
  peace and love
  chai
   
  

"Nemo, the Bus Captain" <nemobuscaptain(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:
  >how much should it, just the back plate shake
back and forth on the threaded rod...?

Sorry, Chai, but I don't really understand the
question. But these things are notorious for
failing. I've had two go out in the last two
years. Buy the best you can afford. Avoid
empi/chino-crap. 

also looking in the muir found installing etc..
but nothing about how the fan pulley comes off
except something about using a screwdriver to pry
it off ??? 

Use two screwdrivers (on opposite sides) to
gently pry it off. Try not to ding up the
generator/alternator. Maybe jam a little cloth
underneath it. 

Or use a 3 arm puller. They are cheap and really
help out with this sort of thing. 

>so looks like after all i am going to need a new
fan pulley? sounds like?

I'd start there. If it fixes your problem, your
golden. If not, think generator bushings or fan
problems. I'd bet on the pulley. 

But....... the last time I had problems with the
fan pulleys I found that the CAUSE of the pulleys
screwing up was excessive endplay due to a thrust
bearing issues. So give end play a quick check
while the fan belt is off. If it clunks, like
mine did, you know the problem. 

>all along i have thought it was the fan shroud
rubbing the fan and alignment ,...

It may still be. Does it make noise when you
spin the hub? Does the generator seem to be
firmly mounted (some of the empichinocrap towers
are breaking). Is the fan shroud firmly mounted.
Do you feel a few mm's clearance between the fan
and the fan shroud. (You'll have to reach between
the fan wall and the firewall to feel it.)

>that shakey back plate though dont look right..?

Get good used German or new Mexican at least. 
They are not expensive. 

>its taking me four shims on outside to get belt
tight ,,,, (NEW BELT)

The belts vary widely these days. There's a
discussion on the vw-resource web page. 

>also the front plate has a small hair line crack
next to the hole and the insides of the hole
where it slips on looks to be pretty ruff
metal... like maybe its worn out also??

Doesn't sound good. See earlier empichinocrap
comments. 

>if so i got to add this to my bus depot
order...tonight ......~!~

Order two. I always carry a spare now. 

also one more thing is without belt on there and
turning pulley with or without the plates
together the plate only rubs and makes that sound
in one spot....top right side of pulley...i can
although pull the plate (back one ) out and get
no noise what so ever....

Well, there is no way to run it with a belt
without putting pressure and making it rub. It
sounds bent and I'd get two news ones. 

Happy bussin'
Ray




Happy bussin'
Ray



                                                                 Break out the shorts, tank tops and sandles........
     Tune up the Bus wash off the winter rust~!~
       It's camping season woohooooooo LETS GO CAMPING~!~
