Date: Wed, 17 May 2006 08:46:24 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] carb conversion

--- richard carlton <browndog32(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:


> and to be honest
> the fuel injection system is really intimidating. 
> as with carbs i
> have a grasp on the ins and outs. what should i do?
> 
I suggest getting yourself un-intimidated. Somewhere
along the line you had to learn about carbs and
somewhere along the line you learned to use a
computer. Bosche L-Jetronic is easier than both of
those.

I suggest that you don't concern yourself with stuff
like mechanical adjustments inside the airflow meter -
Some people do it without the factory rebuild tools
and specs and swear that it's easy - I never needed to
do anything like that. If the sucker's worn out,
replace it.

Other than that, everything that might go wrong is
easy to reason through and test with an ohm meter.
Typical nowadays is vacuum leaks caused by old brittle
hoses. The cylinder head temp sensor goes out from
time to time - almost always indicated by black smoke.
It's easy to test - 2400 ohms at "room temperature"
and that's a very loose parameter.

On one of my engines, the entire wiring harness was
brittle and breaking up inside the sheath. That did
cause some diagnostic problems, I'll admit, but once I
did it, I figured it out in just a few minutes by
checking continuity of wires from one end to the
other, wiggling the harness...

There is very little that goes wrong with them - much
less, in my opinion, than a carburetor. Buy the
Bentley blue book, "How to Understand, Service and
Modify Bosch Fuel Injection & Engine Management"  Read
the sections that describe the principles, then read
through the L-Jetronic section. You'll soon see the
light.

After you get hooked on FI you'll see that L-Jetronic
is about the most basic, simplistic FI system there
is. Then you may long for more and better and maybe
trash it all and go Megasquirt or one of the others
that you can program yourself.

I added controls at the dashboard so I could adjust
mixture on the fly, instantly, and a "passing"
enrichener wherein I pushed the button, held my foot
to the floor, and away we went. 70mph to over 100mph
was quite easy and impressively quick. Mostly though,
it's low maintenance and extremely smooth. Besides -
if anything goes wrong, there's a bunch of people on
this list that can diagnose it sight unseen with just
a few simple questions and answers & tell you what to
do to get going again. It will seldom include getting
greasey hands or spilling gasoline! -BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
