To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Thu, 18 May 2006 18:31:56 -0400
Subject: 1600 DP engine (new) with bad #2 cylinder (follow up)

 From a previous post:

 Ever since the accelerator pump injection tube got sucked into the
engine, #2 cylinder misfires. I had first discovered the problem when I
pulled the #2 spark plug and saw the electrode was bent so that there
was hardly any gap. I looked down into the carburetor and saw that the
aforementioned tube was missing, so I deduced that is what caused the
spark plug electrode to get bent. I straightened it out, but it never
ran right. I pulled the spark plug again (actually all of them - to do
a compression test, which was dead even at 115 pounds)) and the #2
spark plug was black - all the rest were OK. I put in new spark plugs
and #2 turned black again. Pulling spark plug wires with the engine
idling causes RPM to drop on all cylinders, but less on #2. Switching
spark plug wires (#1 for #2) makes no difference. They all register
about 1000 ohms. Valve lash is fine. What am I missing? Do I have to
pull the engine? It's a new meximotor which I had installed about 5,000
miles ago.

Currently:

Ive been getting REALLY frustrated with this. I was about ready to
pull the engine and take the head off of that side. I finally called
the mechanic that I use when I dont have the time or energy to do the
work myself. I told him basically what is contained in the paragraph
above. He said, Ive seen a rich-running condition affect only one
cylinder before. If your compression is OK, I wouldnt pull the
engine. Its not inside your engine  its outside.

So I pulled the 31 PICT off and put the 34 PICT back on (I had scored a
new accelerator pump tube at Circle Yer Wagens). I drove to work
today (and back home) and it runs fine. It has more power, it doesnt
miss, and the #2 spark plug isnt black.

Now the problem is with the idle. The 31 was rock solid. With the 34,
the idle fluctuates between 600 RPM and 1200 RPM about once every 3-4
seconds. Why is this? What I need to do is rebuild both carbs  the 31
because it runs rich, and the 34 because it doesnt idle. Is there an
easier way?

Chris Slaymaker
"What's so funny 'bout peace, love and understanding?"
