From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 23 Mar 2002 11:24:32 EST
To: ukuleledude(-at-)msn.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Temporary Solutions

funny thing about this.  I got my 61 15 window in 94 or 95 and did not expect 
to be driving it around still unrestored this much later.    It has gotten a 
new tranny, and good motor, new shocks, brakes, shift bushings, new fuel 
line, rebuildt the fuel tap, replaced the drag link, taillights, etc etc.  
Mechanically in good shape, just body wise ...um, I did clean up the 
windowsheild seals when I got it, replaced the toated grey rubber with good 
OG grey rubber.  And welded the thing the cargo door check rods fit into at 
the door sill, so the side doors don't rattle.

I didn't replace the other seals as I figured I'd do the rust and body and 
paint work soon, and do it all then.  Seeing as I'm driving it in the winter 
in the rain, I decided to go ahead and replace the other seals, so I got the 
6 solid side window seals replaced in the last couple days.   Haven't done 
the corners yet.

I guess I am more concerened with moisture than some, but it is rainy here.  
If the sun comes out and hits the bus all the condensation forms on the 
inside of the windows- just hoping to avoid that a little.

I'd go ahead and drive it, not worry about the cosmetics.  If the paint 
bothers you, give it a wash, polish and wax. Clean up the dash- you'll look 
at that more.   ignore the bondo.  replace the window seals and go through 
the mechanicals to get every thing in tip top shape for safety and joy of 
driving.   

Some people will go ahead and tell you that everything must be fixed 
correctly, NOW!  They told me that when I screwed some flat sheet metal over 
the hole in the front floor.  Oh well. They can come help weld and paint I 
guess, if there is a whole crew we could make that 15 window a fine shiny bus 
toot sweet.

In a message dated 3/22/02 12:52:43 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
ukuleledude(-at-)msn.com writes:

<< So, the plan is to get my bus painted and looking good for the 
 time being and do a more complete restore in a year or two. The obstacles 
 are, very little $ in pocket right now, several dings, small cancers on both 
 doglegs, some patches of bondo on the doors that have cracked, not a ton of 
 time or tools and, did I say, very little $. Anyway, my questions are:
 
 Should I remove the small bondo patches that have cracked and put down fresh 
 bondo for the time being to get the bus ready for paint? There are only 2 
 spots that have bondo and pounding these spots out would probably not work. 
 Pulling them would be too time consuming and I just don't have the tools....
 
 These are temporary solutions for now! I plan on having my bus a very long 
 time and over the years I look forward to stripping it down to bare metal, 
 replacing the rusty areas with new metal, etc.
  >>
