From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Sat, 23 Mar 2002 11:57:45 EST
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com, GOBUGGIN(-at-)aol.com
Subject: Re: [VB] stock restos are easy...My bus, my reply


<< At 12:38 AM 3/22/02 -0500, GOBUGGIN(-at-)aol.com wrote:
 >A stock resto is sooo easy.  All you gotta do is do the work, you already
 know the 
 >entire project's layout.. Rendering.. Just get a dealer brochure.. There it 
 >is!!

Funny he should say that, as it's not all in a dealer brochure.  They don't 
show everything, and the pics are sometimes of diff years or colours. 
Sometimes they made changes and didn't print a new brochure that showed them, 
or didn't say exactly when a change was made.
     Parts lists list what is available at the time the list was published, 
not what each period of bus came with new.  Some stuff you can only tell by 
looking at loads of buses, figuring what came on what years and what models 
from eye, and seeing enough to tell what was altered and what not. Dif years 
or parts of years, models and colours came with different things.  That's why 
I love unrestored original buses. I think there should be a class for them in 
shows.
     Some parts went through changes without changing the part number.  It 
took me years to find a missing taillight for my 53 bus.   The repro early 
lenses for them are cr&p. Seen some codged together early taillights for sale 
at a show for large price, that guy clamined they were NOS.  haha.  From a 
brochure I would not have been able to tell the difference.  Took longer to 
find a correct 53/earlier bus driver door handle.  Ya, who's gonna notice or 
care?  I do.  what are the correct wiper blades and wiper arms like?  What 
sort of grab handle does a 61 have?  When exactly did they change the rear 
bumper? It can be hard to get info on all the details.  
     What about the diff logos on dif year lenses? or installing the windows 
so the logos are in the right orientation?  Colour of sunvisor?  of sunroof 
canvas? of headliner materiel?  Try to find the correct headliner for a 64 
turk/BW  standard or deluxe. Which fasteners are painted and which not? Will 
the real Blue White please stand up?  What did velvet green look like when 
new, and how much variation was there?  So many little things.  It's like 
dancing a complicated choreographed dance, you need to know all the steps and 
nuances.   

But if you do kustom, it's soooo easy.   Free form dancing.   Make it up 
however you want.

I just think people should have a sense of humour about their obsessions.  If 
you are doing a pervertedly stock resto- admit there is something odd about 
the conservativeness and fascination with the real SWR, or whatever.  People 
may not realise or appreciate the lengths gone through to make it correct- 
may even think it <gasp> boring to do a stock resto.  If you are doing a wild 
kewl kustom, admit the extremes people go to for 'look at me' can be tacky 
and passe PDQ, and people may think your taste is <shock> atrocious.

Clara


 In a message dated 3/21/02 10:45:21 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
vbscott(-at-)sv2s.com writes:

 Sorry, but I completely disagree with you here. Just my point o' view, but
 when I see a custom (or Kustom...whatever) all I think is how easy it must
 be to do that..... 
. But you don't have to
 follow any rules. ...
But choosing to paint a vintage bus Fuscia metallic whatever is
 MUCH easier than finding the RIGHT shade of Sealing Wax Red. There's a 50s
 deluxe that I've seen at a bunch of shows that's SUPER bright SWR...they
 tried it, missed it and it shows. And the basic body work is the same on
 any bus...just cause you're going to paint it Dove Blue doesn't mean that
 you don't want it just as straight as the custom guy.
 
 If you're going BONE stock...you just have to watch the debates online
 about which logo glass you need, which Kamax bolts you need for the rear
 apron to realize that it's a HUGE chore to go that way.
 
  >>
