From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 11 Dec 2003 08:34:45 EST
To: raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com, kd5fvm(-at-)yahoo.com, meckie1(-at-)mindspring.com
Subject: Re: [VB] stuck drums...and clutch inspection

I was just being introduced to the vanagon(-at-)lentil.sup list during the Grendel 
saga.  The funny thing is that I knew the bus before the PO  (who I knew) got 
it, then the PO took the motor and offered the bus to me cheap, but it was 
kinda ugly`.... so I guess Bob bought it...   anyway I remember some story of 
Bob digging in a junkyard ditch for drums, and I think I pmailed him that I had 
spares, but he never replied.  But I don't remember him fighting to get one 
off... but they do get stuck around here with the moisture... the riviera sat 
since 94 until I got it I guess a year or so ago, and I haven't driven it much,  
mostly to haul firewood... so how did the story go?   

Anyway I managed to get enough space clear in the garage to do stuff in 
there, and pulled the motor from the 65 westy.

Undoing the top left engine bolt (has threaded insert in case) I lay under 
the bus with my feet to the back and wrap left arm around around tranny and 
right arm around around tranny and with the long extension, short extension and 
long 17mm socket undo the bolt.   I felt like I was hugging my tranny.  It was 
pretty clean actually.   Have you hugged your tranny today?  Maybe it needs a 
hug.  :)

There was no oil in the bell housing.   So I pulled the clutch, it was urky, 
but not damp, you know with the pad all dark and shiny smooth, instead of 
tan/grey and scruffy surfaced.   some gurk on the fw at the outer edge of where 
the clutch goes ...know what I mean?,  pulled the FW and the case still looked 
nice and clean.   But I could see it had oozed a tad past the main seal.   I 
think it was the high pressure that did it.   So I'll clean it off and 
reassemble,... Then I can hopefully drive w/o the clutch slipping.   Should get better 
milage.




In a message dated 12/10/2003 5:37:43 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
raymond.e.heath(-at-)boeing.com writes:
--- Gary Gibson <meckie1(-at-)mindspring.com> wrote:
>     Did you ever read Bob Hoover's stuck brake drum
> story in his 
> Grendel Saga?   Gary Gibson
