Date: Mon, 2 Aug 2004 19:20:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: Scott Stewart <vw_westy66(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: The Westy from beyond

I recently purchased a 1966 Westfalia (VIN: 236160780 / Pearl White) from Eric Murray in Durham, NC and am trying to find out the history of the vehicle for documentation purposes and sheer curiosity. It was delivered under the Tourist Delivery program. I did contact Christine Neefe at the Stiftung AutoMuseum. While they do have the info to produce an Identity Certificate, there are no records to indicate to whom the bus was originally delivered. No surprise there after 38 years. 
 
I know that Eric purchased it from Patrick Flynn in Maryland (May 1999), who had offered it for sale via the Type2 list. After exchanging e-mails with Pat, I'm afraid I've hit a dead end. Patrick bought the bus in pretty complete shape (July 1998) from someone near Rockville, MD, but has no contact info. When he purchased the vehicle, he posted a message titled, "Change the stats 66 Westfalia in Arnold MD" and noted that the bus had come to the previous owner through a "trade for money owed". Pat later ended up parting some of the bus out. The SO-42 interior was sold to someone on the list. (Certainly like to know where that went!) The only other clue to this mystery is a Washington state (not D.C.) license plate that was in one of the camper cabinets. The plate (HFU 044) was last registered in 1995. Not sure if it has any connection whatsoever to the bus. 
 
So far neither the Maryland or Washington state motor vehicle registration departments have come up with anything based on the VIN. Washington state is looking into the license plate currently, but since personal info is not released, I won't have much more info even if the plate is a match. I'm hoping there is an air-cooled enthusiast who owned or might be familiar with this particular camper. 
 
Any info would be GREATLY appreciated! 
 
Images of the bus are at the following URL: 
 
http://www.dockaos.com/wendy.htm 
 
Scott 
Winston-Salem, NC 
