From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Thu, 5 Aug 2004 00:16:24 EDT
To: gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net, vintagebus(-at-)lenti.type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Flap year/type?

 I have a sneaking suspision that the rear flap installed on Annie when you 
got her was the deluxe version, which has the larger window, like the one in 
the ad the URL you posted.  The flap you got has the non -deluxe sized window.   
Deluxe sized glass is harder to find,  being rarer.  Some have divots, some 
don't.  I used to think it was a 63 thing, but then I changed my mind.    

I am totally impressed with the non-chalance you have in "I just swapped 
them"   The screws holding the rear flap on my 61 are very rusty.  :(

In a message dated 8/4/2004 9:02:41 PM Pacific Standard Time, 
gns.wagnon(-at-)verizon.net writes:
Volk-a-maniacs,

So, while at the PIR show this weekend, I picked up a flap with good glass,
handle and lock and mostly good metal for $5.  Thinking originally that I
would be swapping the glass I just bought for the broken version (size is
roughly 32"x14") on my '63 bus, I took the flap over to my bus as a
comparison.  The glass on the $5 flap is much smaller (size is roughly
26"x11").  The $5 flap is maybe from another year or style?  Since the $5 flap
is a screw on replacement for mine, but with smaller and unbroken glass, I
just swapped them this afternoon.  Cool.

Now my questions.
- A characteristic is that the $5 flap has a 'divot' in the metal above the
handle.  Similar to the flap pictured at this link:
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=89045
The odd thing is that this picture shows a larger window space, but has the
'divot'.  Does this help identify the year/model that this $5 flap belongs to?
- Why does the $5 flap have a smaller window?
- Is this a deluxe vs. standard thing?
- Is this a year difference thing?

Should I be embarrassed to have this thing on my '63 Panel/camper conversion?
(Not that I really care if my parts match... I like functional most of all.)
:o)

Thanks in advance for your help.
Greg

'63 'Annie'
