From: Beto Pina <type2guy(-at-)verizon.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 10 Aug 2004 9:17:43 -0700
Subject: Weekend Trip Report

Well, since my daughter is starting school tomorrow, we decided to sneak out for a long weekend in Northern Arizona.

The fabulous Fu and I had talked about a VW campout on the Mogollon Rim near Payson, AZ so we decided to plan on that.

Did some tuneup stuff and loaded the bus Wednesday and decided to truck out that night to take advantage of the cool night air across the desert.  Shift coupler decided to go kaput in Barstow, CA but a coathanger and some pliers got that back together within 10 minutes.
Got tired and got a room in Needles.  Woke up and cracked the popout glass while trying to open...damn new tight seals!  Other than that no other mishaps for the duration of the weekend.

Got the the Fu ranch in Flagstaff on Thursday afternoon and freshened up then spent the next two nights in Sedona with the family.  Nice little monsoon rolled through with an unbelieveable lightning show.

Headed out on Saturday for the campout.....absolutely beautiful drive through the Mogollon Rim area and Payson, nice tall pine and cool air.  Camped out with the Fu's and met a few AZ bus/bug folks.

Headed back with the Fu's to Flagstaff on Sunday morning and kicked back.  We all loaded up in Ricky's primo 23window and went to dinner, nine passenger bus indeed!

Monday morning we decided against the Grand Canyon and cjose to slowly make our way back home via Jerome.  Spent a few hours there and then trekked across the hot ass desert back to Cali.  Made the trek from Jerome, AZ to Murrieta, CA in 8 hours, so I was pleased, except for the crazy ass wind from Indio to Banning.

Covered a lot of miles, avg'd 18.5 mpg and kept about 60mph.
Although I don't have the top speed anymore, I am getting fond of the 1800cc stroker and the small nut tranny combo.  Never had to downshift on the grades.  Chiriaco summit was topped at a steady 60mph along with every other hill.

Great weekend with friends and family.  Nice first long haul in the 60Std., but I do miss the old 63EZ.  Now I just hope I can make Jerome in a month.

Beto
60Std.
Murrieta, CA
