From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 17 Aug 2004 10:12:11 EDT
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: generator issue  6V conversion

not related to ebaying vw parts:

I'm converting my spare 1600SP doghouse to 6V and it's having issues. 

I'm using a small diameter generator with vr stuck to it... the 7V 45A 
version. (date codes available on request). My problem the #(-at-)%^ing offset of 
course... both directions. since the deal was sitting too far forward, I figured I'd 
'shim' the front tin, use a different front hub, and it'd be all copasetic. 
have 3 versions of front hubs. but no... that way the fan rubs the front tin no 
matter what. I am only finding one version of front tin to fit this gen in my 
piles of stuff, as oppsed to the myraid versions there to confuse the unwary 
with large generators. so.. give up on the front tin customisation issue, 
install the front tin and hub that works. 
now the gen pulley is forward of the crank pulley...sure recipe for 
diasaster. I try shimmming it out (do not try this at home) but it won't work. Mess 
around some more, find another gen that is slightly longer (also sm diameter 7V 
45A). well, okay. hm. swap that one on. 
dig around for different offset gen pulleys, best deal seems to be a 25hp 
one, where the gen pulley hub is separate from the 2 halfs of the pulley. now I 
can slide the hub on, and shim it before sliding the front half of the pulley 
on. Now it'll take a different size fan belt.  

but this seems really lame. what am I doing wrong? I mean, a 40 crank is the 
same as a 1600 crank, right, so the block is the same length. what exactly did 
they put in the 63s? why is this so short? this is the motor for my 63 sc 
ugly rusty rat work truck

. . . . 
next thing I did was find a regular gen pulley, but it had separated the 
front half from the hub, so I put the hub on the gen, then the outer half, and 
then the next half, basically turning it around... this changed the offset and I 
was actually able to use a regular fan belt.  Still needs a little work to get 
it quite right... but it's almost there.

am I out there?  there has to be a real way to do it.  maybe this is the real 
way.
installed a 6V FW with large clutch and it's stepped crank FW, but I believe 
you can use the early FW on the later crank
swapped over to the small diameter heater boxes, slapped an ugly header on it 
:)
installed 6V coil (no triangle bracket needed.. sc has the roof hanger on the 
left side

NEXT:
rebuild the 28 pict carb and install it, then I think it's good to ground 
start  maybe I'll get a manual choke carb for this motor, but I have the 28pict 
now.  plus they give good milage.   Why have my 6V choke elements gone missing? 
 last time I looked I had several of them..
  
jetting suggestions for a 1600sp with 28 in a bus?  think it has a 122.5 
main, 130 air, and the electric shut off dealie.. it has a number on it too.. I 
have 45 and 55 and another to choose from.

..............................................................................
........
http://home.comcast.net/~sunrisebus/sunrisebuswerk.html
