From: Tom Tarka <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
Date: Mon, 3 Jul 2006 12:35:08 -0400
To: Type 2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: vacuum diagnostics: engine strong but manifold vacuum

Volks,

Continuing the saga of my first engine build, I finally got my 1600SP  
installed and running.

The engine runs strong and I've been having fun just driving around  
town...logging about 250 miles so far.

I expected the engine to run a wee bit hot during the break-in  
period, so I've been keeping my eyes on my gauges and pulling over to  
let her cool if the oil temps got above ~210 F or so.[1]

I mentioned this in a conversation with a fellow Volksy (who shall  
remain nameless) and he said:
  "Tom: Put a vacuum gauge on your engine.  It might tell you  
something."

I replied, "But X, it's not hunting at idle.  There's no vacuum leak."

X: "You'd be surprised what a vacuum gauge can tell you.  Try it just  
to verify."

Well, I tried it and, low and behold, my vacuum reading - as measured  
off the center of the intake manifold (Bug Auto-stick SP manifold w/  
Vacuum port) - fluctuates rapidly between 10-20 inches of Hg.

 From various websites, this tells me I may have a: Ignition miss  
(can be caused by very worn distributor shaft bushings); leaky valve  
or weak valve spring; blown head gasket.

I've verified this behavior with another distributor, so i'm guessing  
it's not that, the heads are New (not rebuilt) so I would be slightly  
surprised if it's a leaky valve, but I could easily see it being a  
"blown head gasket" - i.e. shims between the jug and the engine case  
that aren't sealed properly.

I tested compression and it came up the same for all cylinders -  
around 125 - which is probably fairly reasonable for the ~6.9:1  
compression I'm running.

Anyone have any thoughts on this?  I'm about to pull the engine and  
reseal the jugs to the case, but if there's other stuff I should be  
checking first... (or perhaps measuring the vacuum off an autostick  
bug manifold isn't the best way to do it?)

Thanks (as usual),
     tom

[1] I know that the oil gauge is only "qualitative" and I don't  
expect that to be a necessarily accurate reading.  I also know that  
the sump sender which I'm currently using generally reads a little  
low, hence stopping at 210 F.
---
"When the going gets weird, the Weird turn pro!" - H.S. Thompson
