From: "Melissa & Jerry Jess" <vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com>
To: "'Faster-Laster'" <jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com>, "vintagebus
Date: Mon, 3 Jul 2006 22:35:49 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] AridZona

Bless you and thanks   I will be a good Old Man from now on. I totally know
what they mean.  I was just trying to put people together, which I have done
a lot.  No big deal , and thanks for the kind words. I do not deserve any
leeway  uj

-----Original Message-----
From: Faster-Laster [mailto:jason(-at-)fasterlaster.com] 
Sent: Monday, July 03, 2006 9:40 PM
To: vwstuff53(-at-)msn.com
Cc: type2; vintagebus (vintagebus)
Subject: Re: [T2] AridZona

Melissa & Jerry Jess wrote:
> Tell you what.  All I have been doing is relaying info about AridZona Bus
> Stuff.  Many times I have been asked to check out the Bus as it is
somewhere
> in AridZona.  I do all of this for free! I have put many buyers and
sellers
> together. If this is such a burden the  two Bus lists, then no problem.
> What happens in AridZona will now stay in AridZona.

Volks,
	Let's not let this get out of hand. I believe that dan (who
questioned 
the post from UJ) was simply questioning if such posts fell under the 
ebay clause, and will vouch for dan being an upright guy (although 
technically I think his bus is a pancake engine ;) UJ is a total gem to 
the VW community and I suspect that dan meant no disrespect. I will say 
in his defense that the past several posts from UJ have not contained 
descriptions nor any indications of what the link went to. So that the 
list member "has" to check out the link just to find out what UJ posted 
about. I for one usually just delete the post if it has no description 
of what it is, however I can say a description would make me more prone 
to checking it out. Either way, to be honest I feel UJ should get a bit 
of leeway on the list for the simple fact he is such a large part of the 
VW community in the western US. Well enough of my blabbering.

-- 
66 Westy "Tigerbus"
79 Sportsmofakia "Spongebus"
