Date: Mon, 13 Aug 2001 13:00:36 -0700 (PDT)
From: Robert Taylor <rtaylor(-at-)geog.ucsb.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: Canvas Install

>     Your first illustration is how the factory did it, at least that's
> how I found it was when I removed what was left of the original
> canvas...

Cool. So I'm not a complete space cadet then. :-)

> ...I was told by one listee that the canvas Bus Depot sells does
> not have enough length to install it like this, and to just staple the
> canvas to the pop top, then staple the plastic strips over the canvas.

Well, if you look at my first two pictures I think you'll agree that they
take a more or less equal amount of fabric.

> ...looks like it would be a royal PITA to install it like the factory
> did.

I think the first way (as I did it) is probably easier than the other way
(which is one reason why I did it that way) but I can't comment from
personal experience on the PITA factor of way #2. Seems to me like
substantially more work for only a slightly more aesthetic end result, but
doable in principle. You know, I wouldn't be surprised if the original
factory installed those canvases when the tops were off the bus and upside
down on a workspace. Then their way makes more sense.

> I emailed Bus Depot about this, but have not gotten a response yet.

Let's see. You have the canvas now, yes? Seems to me you should be able to
answer your own question by direct observation. Just assemble your tools
and give it a go. Using a few staples to hold the canvas temporarily in
place before you tack/staple/whatever down the plastic strip will
definitely let you see what you've got and what it will take. Mind the
height difference with support hinges bolted and unbolted, as noted in my
archived post, and you should be fine. I'd be surprised if Bus Depot has
accurate information about the factory tolerances of the length of those
difference is going to be plus or minus fractions of an inch. And then
there's the factory (and real world) tolerances of the height of an
elevated Westfalia poptop to consider. Bus Depot certainly can't tell you
exactly how high your own poptop happens to be.

My canvas was big enough to fold. Yours probably is too. And if it's not,
you'll find out when you're installing and then you can do it the unfolded
way. The fabric can also stretch a quarter inch or so too, so you're
working with a sort of forgiving medium here.

> Anyway, thanks for all the info.

No worries. Just relax and go for it. The end result will be very pretty.

Regards,
Surfer Bob
1978 Westfalia, the surf/luvbus

