Date: Tue, 14 Aug 2001 01:33:41 -0400 (EDT)
From: david raistrick <keen(-at-)type2.com>
To: Type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>, Vintage Bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: So I done did it. I bought a welder.


Yup. Had to go to the hardware store for a bolt to replce one i had to
cut..(part of the swivel "clamp" part of this old crafsman 4 of 5" vise)

Anyway.  So since i have all this free time and being bored and all..i
broke down and bought the lincoln sp100...I could have gotten it about
20-30 bucks cheaper if i'd tried. but to hell with it.

Got the mig kit of course.  Next trip during "normal" business hours that
puts me in town i'll stop buy and get a midsized bottle of CO2-Ag..


Came home, opened it all up carefully so I could take it back if i need
to..(wasnt sure if I had enough amps out in the shed to handle it..).

Sat down, read the entire 1/3 of the manual that is in english...no TV so
i couldnt watch the video that came with it.


After that, assembled it for Flux wire...and started playing.

Grabbed one of these sheets of roofskin (the portions that we removed when
installing sunroofs..) tossed it on the table, grabbed the grinder and
cleared a patch...

And started to attempt to make some beads.  Well..heh.

First off, DONT weld ~20g sheet (cadillac roof..) metal directly on a wood
table.  After I smelled the burning wood, I grabbed a few random items and
put it so the area i was welding was up off the table a little bit.


Fun fun.  I'd already selected a pair of jeans and a tshirt that were
regular church goers, so I was ok if they got a bit holyier.

I didnt want to wear my normal work shoes..since they are canvas...I so
tossed on my flip flops and figured I could avoid the sparks...

HA.

DO NOT WELD WITH FLIPFLOPS ON!  It hurts. :)  So i came in and dug out
some combat boots.

Much better.  But they still find their way in....(through the holes in
the jeans i think..)


Anyway.  Nowhere near perfect...but I got a rough hang of it.  I managed
to do a 3 or so inch butt weld after a LOT of tries..of course the gab was
pretty..umm...uneven since it was just a small random section of
sheetmetal i had around and I didnt bother to make it fit any better.


Burned a lot of holes...went back later and figure out how to fill them.
yay.

Oh.  and yup.  If you cant get the wirespeed down low enough...turn up the
power. Muuch better.

Anyway.  I've been sucking flux and paint fumes for a while now and I
think i'm going to take a shower. :)

fun though.


:)

...david


--
David Raistrick  '66 SO-44 Westy		keen(-at-)type2.com
/"\   ASCII Ribbon Campaign 				in Guyton Ga
\ / - NO HTML/RTF in e-mail
 X  - NO Word docs in e-mail
/ \ - NO V-Cards in e-mail


