Date: Sat, 17 May 2008 19:55:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Running funny :(

Is there anyone lives near Jason to hold him down when
we tell him the #3 story? Maybe best to go through all
the "wishful thinking" stuff first, huh?
Seriously, check your valve clearances carefully on #3
once again. If the plug is nice and tan then maybe
it's not the dreaded #3 dropped valve seat. If you
can't track it down, then it will be time to do a
compression check both cold and hot. Keep in mind when
doing a hot compression check that you loosen the
sparkplugs when it's cold and put them back in all the
way, but not tight then run the engine until normal
operating temp and the plugs will come out witout
taking the head threads with them. Hopefully you will
find something else that will smooth it out. Try
swapping wires (swap both ends of course!)just to see
if a wire is bad. -BaH
--- Jason Cornfeld <applefr3ak(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

 Hey guys.. Any idea what would make #3 run funny? I
 mean i can pull the plug
 wire to it and it only makes a "hair" Difference.
 Pull any of the other plug
 wires and the rpm's drop consideribly. Another
 reason i suspect something
 wierd is going on there, i just did the valves again
 and put electronic
 ignition in too. But the engine isnt "smooth" when
 idling it shakes a
 little, and if i pull the wire to #1 it shakes less
 which makes me think
 number 3 isnt firing well.. is my reasoning here
 correct??? I have not
 replaced my cap as of yet, but will try to do so
 soon. I am getting spark to
 # 3 at least, i can pull the wire off the cap and
 see spark, and it seems to
 be going through the wire as if i go back and forth
 ie: on and off i can get
 the exhaust to "pop" any ideas as to why #3 is being
 goofy let me know.. its
 a 72 bus, 1.8 litre, Dual Carbs (solex 32's
 rejetted)
 
 Thanks in Advance,
                     Jason
 
 

-Dave "Busahaulic" Pearson (BaH)
'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2);'74 "Bus2"
Hailing from Renton, Washington
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://new.photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01/albums
If there is more than one link shown, try both.
