From: VeeWee111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 5 Mar 2002 11:08:29 EST
To: Vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Warm Ups

--part1_15c.974af62.29b6477d_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

In a message dated 3/4/2002 7:56:31 PM Pacific Standard Time, n7cas(-at-)gbis.com 
writes:
> Is there any indication, then, at the two gauges I have, oil pressure and 
> temp-wise, when generally that the "choke is off?"

Hi Craig,
An auto choke is on as long as you have it set for and when you pump the fuel 
it releases the choke if not set enough.  To make it less or more choke time 
depends on how much or less it is turned before being locked in place on the 
carburetor.  If you are having to pump the fuel the choke is not set far 
enough or long enough.  As for the fuel in the engine case do check your fuel 
pump diaphram for cracks, the fuel pump rod for proper hieght (Too high and 
too much fuel pressure results in keeping the shut off valve open and float 
pushed down from the overpressure!), and if still a problem replace the fuel 
shut off valve and/or float in the carb.  Still a problem?  Then check your 
carburetor jetting.
  As for warming your VW up best to get it running for 30 to 60 seconds to 
let the oil get around inside the engine.  Then put it in first and carefully 
get it moving forward slowly.  Keep the RPMs down and glance now and then at 
your oil pressure gauge.  You want to keep the pressure well below 80Lbs..  
It takes about a block or two for us to get our oil pressure down enough to 
shift up into second gear.  Even then we have to watch the oil pressure gauge 
to make sure the pressure does not get too high when shifting into third and 
fourth gear.  What wieght oil are you using?  It sounds like you need 
10/30Wt..  We are using Castrol of this wieght and it does help some to keep 
the oil pressure down instead of straight 30Wt., but not tons of differance.
  In otherwords just sitting and warming up your VW is like waking up on a 
cold still morning after camping under a blanket that was to thin to keep you 
really warm.  So you throw off the blanket, get up and sit on a stump in only 
jeans and Tee shirt and wait to warm up.  Instead of getting on your feet and 
walking around or otherwise exercising to get warmed up much faster.  Which 
is not only better for you, but better for your engine!
Eric&Barb 

--part1_15c.974af62.29b6477d_boundary--
