Date: Sat, 03 Nov 2001 11:02:08 -0800
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry Kay)
Subject: Re: [T2] 78 2.0L


At 11:08 AM 11/03/2001 -0600, you wrote:
>
>Do all that the good doktor has mentioned, except one thing.
>
>Take the Bentley to your outhouse, and use it for toilet paper.
>
>This worthless mass of bound paper, is only good for telling you just
>enough to get you into trouble, and leaves you on your own anyway.
>
>OK for spec's, not for good, specific, lead you to the problem, trouble
>shooting.
>
>Sounds like your running short on fuel.

Which can be a clogged tank outlet or fuel filter, worn pump, cracked
circuit board or terminal wires at the double relay or pump or the feed
wire to the relay from the starter, or even a worn ingition switch contact.
And could be just a loose ground wire or cracked solder connection at the
series resistance that grounds the injectors or a worn pressure regulator.
All these things might be a reason for under spec fuel delivery pressure or
volume. An open hose in a can will not identify many possible causes for
this problem. All this besides the fact that hooking up a proper guage at
the provided fitting in the motor compartment takes no time than doing your
open hose/can test. Following procedure takes no more time and gives
usefull information and allows further troubleshooting to be focused,
efficient and effective. 

>Pull the fuel line off at the engine side of the pump, and put the hose
>into a coffee can.
>Have someone turn on the ignition, and you will find out real quick if
>you have a fuel from the pump / filter problem.
>

That test alone will prove nothing. If the pump is putting gas from an open
hose into a can, you still have not verified pressure and volume under
load. If you assume fuel delivery is good by such a test and actual
pressure is only 20lbs in the loop when hooked up, you can spend all day
fussing with the problem and it still won't run. A cracked rotor can cause
this symptom as well. Every assumption you make based upon non-standard
procedures is risk of wasted time/money. If you want to prove what's wrong
with the least effort possible, follow Bentley, meaning spend the time to
understand the procedures. Skill only comes from application and practice.
Anyone serious about developing their knowledge and skills in servicing
their own VW would do well to spend their money first for Bentley, second
for Haynes, and third for tools. Then spend the time to compare the Bentley
and Haynes materials. Haynes is a great aid to understanding Bentley. You
will find specific VW tools called for in Bentley are given standard tool
alternatives in Haynes many times.    

Note that if you truly honor the maintenance schedules of the Owner's
manual and/or Bentley alone, far more than half the time your problem will
be resolved with no further troubleshooting required. If you keep the
maintenance schedules up to date from then on, your needs for
troubleshooting will be very rare and also focused from the get-go because
of all the real data the maintenance history gives. 

If you buy a bus with or without a maintenance history, the first thing to
do is verify all maintenance is up to date. As one example, it you don't
see in the history within the last 4 years or 40,000 miles a check or
change of the tranny fluid add it to the list of to-do's. Go thorugh the
whole maintenance list addressing everything that is not verified as up to
date. There is no better way to verify safety and reliability. Less
maintenance is more risk, and everyone must do their own assessment of
their risk expose and tolerance. If the use is short range and occassional
weekend running about, it is quiet a different matter than use for daily
work commuting or summer vacation use hundreds of miles from your local
tribal jurisdiction. 

 

 

T.P. Stephens
Doktor Tim's

