From: Thom Fitzpatrick <thom(-at-)calweb.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com (SplitWindows Rule/LagWagens Drool),
Date: Wed, 19 Sep 2001 14:48:23 -0700 (PDT)
Subject: News from the ZebraSafari (fwd)

----- Forwarded message from Christian Figenschou -----

From: "Christian Figenschou" <fig(-at-)zebrasafari.co.za>
Subject: News from the ZebraSafari
Date: Wed, 19 Sep 2001 23:44:12 +0200
>
Hey Volks

The ZebraSafari is still moving ahead through Africa, and,
what's more, I've managed to complete an update to our
website at www.zebrasafari.co.za . This was not easy, as it
has been very difficult to get reliable internet access on
the road.

I've fixed all the incomplete pages, including the contact
us page, the sponsors' page, the faq (send us questions!),
the links page (please send links to VW bus pages and
especially to VW bus journey sites, or any links you think
might be useful), and ... wait for it ... we finally have
the first instalment of our online journal posted!

We are currently in Lusaka, Zambia, and we leave here early
Friday morning for the South Luangwa national park, after
which we move on to Malawi.

This morning we were held and questioned for more than an
hour by the Zambian army, after they thought Shaun was
photographing one of their barracks. We were given a hundred
questions and had all the details transcribed out of our
passports, before being released with a friendly warning not
to brandish cameras near police or military without first
asking permission.

Last Tuesday we were lost on a desert island on the Zambezi
River, between Zambia and Zimbabwe, and the news of the
World Trade Centre attack found us even there, thanks to a
battery-operated 2-way radio. We spent six days at the
Jungle Junction, and it was a real struggle to leave there
and get back on the road. Picture an island like the one in
the Leonardo DiCaprio movie The Beach, and you get the
picture.

Before Jungle Junction we stayed a few days at a lodge near
Livingstone, a stone's throw from the Victoria Falls, which
were a very moving experience for me. Highight of that
campsite was a herd of elephants moving in one night and
eating most of the trees in the camp.

We entered Zambia from Botswana, where we spent four days on
a mokoro (dug-out canoe) safari in the Okavango Delta, a
unique experience.

The ZebraBus is still holding up well despite the load, and
no breakdowns or mechanical problems yet, after more than 8
000km of driving.

The ZebraBus is attracting attention wherever it goes --
it's a real clown car and sets off smiles among everyone who
sees it.

Well, please check out the website, there's lots of new
stuff. What's more, I'll be adding a whole lot of new pics
tomorrow.

And I'd like to encourage all listees who have the
inclination to email us. I will reply to all mails whenever
I get reasonable internet access, which is quite difficult
here in Darkest Afrika, but I will respond eventually.

Drive those buses!

fig
and the ZebraBus
Lusaka, Zambia
www.zebrasafari.co.za

PS: Please can everyone with an ACVW website please link to
our site at www.zebrasafari.co.za -- Thanks!


