Date: Mon, 18 Feb 2008 09:47:46 -0700 (MST)
From: crangus(-at-)rof.net
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: So Long--Happy Bus Trails (long). . .

The time has come to say goodbye to the list after a dozen or so years. I've
managed to get my two '78 Westys into very good Colorado hands thanks to
Chris at Busted Bus (all my parts are now over in Boulder with BB).I
wanted to thank everyone for the help and support over the years,
especially David and Karl.

Warning--long part:

The following is from the PO of my old Dakota Cali Deluxe Westy. I thought
it was both touching and great practical advise for his son/ new owner:

Dear (son),

It's great that you have a job. Sounds like a pretty good first job.
Better than my first job--washing dishes!

I'm glad you liked the car. I've had some great times with her so I hope
you do too. However, it's an old car and needs some special care and has
some quirks of it's own. Here's a list of things to watch out for and how
to fix 'em.

I. The Starter: I've always had problems with this. It's because it's
tucked back behind the engine and gets hot. If the car won't turn over or
just clicks and the battery posts are clean, 1st check a large red wire
under the dash and make sure it's connected to the relay. Sometimes it
comes loose. 2nd find the starter--left side (under the car) behind the
motor. (Important: Make sure the car is in neutral!!), parking brake on.

2 turn on switch at key
3 With two screw drivers--insulated so you don't get shocked--touch the
two starter terminals and then touch the two screwdrivers together--just a
real quick tap and you'll hear the starter engage.  That's it. Then the
car should
start. This is called jumping the starter. I try to avoid this problem by
cooling engine down before I sop the engine after a long trip. You may
want to replace a relay I had put in before you consider replacing the
starter (the starter ain't cheap!).

II.  The Filters: This needs replacing periodically. It's on the left side
behind the engine under the car. You'll know it needs replacing 'cause the
car may idle OK but wont' accelerate. Clamp the gas line with the
Vise-Grips I left you before taking the filer off so you don't get
drenched in gas.

III.  Points--These break periodically. The car will turn over but won't
start. I left a couple of books to help you learn how to replace them.

Try not to buy any of these from the dealer (way too expensive). Sometimes
they're hard to find but they're out there at auto parts stores. Once you
do these things you'll see how easy they are to fix.

The car is still in good condition but has its own little bad habits.
Remember it's old. Once you fix 'em you should have the confidence that
wherever you go you can fix it if anything should happen 'cause it's
usually the some old things.

IV.  Clutch Cable--This breaks periodically too. You'll know it because
the clutch pedal will just drop to the floor. It's a hassle but it's also
easy.  Keep spares of these things when you can. Check the things I left
you in the car. You'll find some spares: Clutch cables was replaced
recently. You should also have a spare fuel pump, points, fan belt, etc.,
and some useful tools. Buy yourself a good metric socket set first. You'll
be using 10, 11,12,13mm almost exclusively. If you do the work yourself
the car is relatively cheap to maintain. If not--well--save!Also--make
sure the A/C switch is off or you'll kill the battery. A/C =works but
needs a belt. I never used it ;cause it put a drag on the engine.

I hope this will help. Take good care of yourself. Know that I love you
and think of you often and am proud of you. Send my love to your brothers.

Love you,
Dad


...and with that I'll say goodbye and good luck--
Craig in Colorado
