Date: Tue, 19 Feb 2008 14:00:43 -0800
From: support(-at-)volks-web.com
To: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: bus trailer wheels

http://search.harborfreight.com/cpisearch/web/search.do?keyword=trailer&Submit=Go

Well, I'm certainly no bearing expert...  And I don't put a ton of miles 
on, so haven't experienced any probs.

But I guess it all comes down to lube, rpm and miles...

The bearings are undoubtedly cheep cheep cheep.  The bearings come lubed 
- but I remove as much of the old lube as possible and repack with a 
good grease so I know it's done right.

Having the 12" wheels over the 8" are lower rpm - I understand the rpms 
on the 8s are basically a recipe for failure at hiway speeds.

And miles...  Just swap the bearings out with a freshly greased set at x 
miles (???) and keep the second set along for roadside replacement if 
necessary.

You could probably find some beefier bearings to fit if you were 
determined and didn't want the more frequent maintenance with the cheepies.

For me the most important factor is weight.  If you've got a fully 
loaded westy you're already pushing it towing anything, I figger.  These 
trailers are somewhere <300 lbs dry weight before building it up with a 
deck and whatever.  Other similar sized trailers start at about 800 lbs 
- check the trailer weight of a uhaul utility - jeez!  'Bout 1200 lbs 
the last time I checked.  That's more than I want to haul.  I figure 
with one of these you've got about a 700 lb payload to keep the total 
under 1000.

Get the heavy duty:

http://www.harborfreight.com/cpi/ctaf/displayitem.taf?Itemnumber=94564

Ya gotta watch harbor - they often have the same trailer under 2 diff 
part numbers at different prices.  Look at all of 'em carefully and 
monitor until it's on a good sale price - I got this one for $299, I 
think, and add a spare for $30 (on sale, make sure it's the 5 lug, not 
the 4) and you're good to go.

You've got a 1740 lb payload - for short runs with heavier stuff.  I 
would not run this trailer at full capacity behind a westy for much 
distance or on hills, but the extra capacity comes in handy on occasion. 
  And you might not always use it on a bus...

But if you assemble it as I described, you've got a trailer that should 
be good and look good for years.  Sealing up any holes in the paint and 
all of the wood initially will make it last much longer.

They used to give you free shipping on orders of a coupla hundred - 
don't know if they still do.  Better if you can go to the store and get 
it.  Inspect the carton carefully - they go thru a lot of abuse from 
china to you, and enough trauma can leave you with a frame with 
significant compromises to the paint.  If the carton's all beat up, 
insist on another.

Oh, and the store will honor website pricing, just print out the page...

With a spare (or two) and a properly balanced load the tires should be 
fine.  Watch that tongue weight!  I did lose an 8" tire on an older 
trailer, but the load was a bit much and the tires were 5-6 years old. 
Not while towing with a bus.  Be scrupulous about load balancing, with 
any particularly heavy items centered over the axle - but you knew that. 
  ;-)  I've been horrified at some of the loads I've seen - people have 
no idea how dangerous this is.  Properly loaded, at 1000 lbs total, you 
don't feel the trailer at all.  Creepy, kinda, but just what you want. 
The conduit frame helps you to see the trailer so you know it's still 
there.  ;-)  I had a few heart stopping moments when I first started to 
tow wondering if the trailer was still there.

Adjust the hitch with the trailer empty and get a coupla fat friends to 
bounce on the rear of the trailer to make sure it's good.

Good luck!

T
