Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2004 11:25:59 -0400 (EDT)
From: Eddie Goodwin <egoodwin(-at-)shell.gis.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: RE: [T2] Paint-it-yourselfers (long)

Hey all--

I actually finished painting my bus last week. I am very satisfied with
the results. Someone said in the type2.com library that air painting was a
"zen thing". After doing the job I couldn't agree more. It took me
screwing the passenger door up 3 times before I really got it. Once I got
it, I got it. I decided that I was gonna do this paint job over the summer
months. I had no previous experience painting cars. I'll pass on some of
the things that I learned from this experience:


--PRACTICE!!!!
Don't start painting your pride and joy until you feel comfortable. I
painted my lawn tractor before I started my bus. The tractor came out
great... and I still screwed up the bus's paint 3 times.


--Get the right tools!
I originally bought a craftsman touch up gun that runs around 40PSI. This
gun is good... but it really sucks having to fill it so often .It was
great for the lawn tractor, not so great for the bus For me, it wouldn't
even get one panel of the bus done before you had to fill it (and this
is bad, you can't keep a wet edge like this). At first I thought this gun
was easier to use, but once I got used to others I feel differently. It
was good to get the feel of air painting though. I plan to paint more cars
in the future so I know i'll use it. It will be perfect for when I'm ready
to paint the door jambs and steps in the bus. 

I bought a gravity fed Husky HVLP gun at Home Depot for around $60. It
took some getting used to, but once I got used to it, it did a great job. 
This gun was designed to do entire re-coats, and is the right tool for the
job. 

Another tool that is absolutely essential IMHO is a good DA (Dual
Action) Sander. I can't express how important this tool is. It makes this
job much easier. I put a lot of runs on the bus on my first attempt. It
took a few minutes to sand them out after the paint dried... as opposed to
hours of hand sanding.

Ofcourse you need a decent compressor. I have a 5HP single stage and it
kept up with the HVLP fine.

Use a respirator designed for the paint you are using. They are
easy to find. Saftey is the first priority. A dusk mask won't cut it.

I also bought a book: "Paint & Body Handbook" by Don Talor and Larry
Hofner. It was a good reference not just on paint but all kinds of body
stuff and welding. I'd recommend it if you plan to do lots of bodywork and
painting on multiple vehicles.

I used Acrylic Enamel paint. Its relatively cheap and durable. I did the
bus in 2 tone, orange on the bottom white on the top. I haven't painted
the pop top yet, but I might start that today. I used about a gallon of
orange and a lot less white... maybe a third of a gallon (so far still
need to do the pop top)

I started with the orange (screwed it up a few times first then I got
it).... It came out pretty good. But when I did the
white I really got the hang of it and it came out awesome. I put 3 coats
of the white and it looks as good as the finish on my father's new Grand
Marquis of the same color. You start to notice the details of factory ford
paint jobs after you do this job (lots of orange peel!). 

My cost for what was used on the bus:

5HP Compressor        $275
Paint                 $125
Reducer               $ 30
Primer                $ 50
DA Sander             $ 50
HVLP Paint Gun        $ 60
Sandpaper/Tape        $ 25
Respirator            $ 30
              Total   $645


There were some other Misc things too, like rubber gloves and grubby
clothes :) A water trap on your air line is a good idea too, but optional. 
grated, I already had the compressor and sander... but this is just to
give you an idea on what it would cost from scratch. And with the prices
are ballpark, depending on what quality you want. I called around back in
May to see the prices people would give me for a paint job. I called about
10 shops. The cheapest quote I got was $1700 if i brought it in with all
the body work done and in primer. The high end was $3500. Thats when I
decided to do it myself. I definitely saved some bucks (and at the time i
started the bus wasn't running).


This job was much easier than I expected it to be. The biggest problem I
had was the fact that I overestimeated the work needed to get a decent
paint job. Its really not that bad at all. If you have a bus in need of
nothing but paint, you're all set. Most of my time was spent with
bodywork, and surface Preparation. The paint itself only takes a few hours
to apply. This isn't to say i rushed it. I definitely took my time and put
a lot of care into each step. I'd recommend doing the same.

I would encourage anoyone with the motivation and means to do a paint job
to do so. You'll be proud of what you've accomplished in the end. And,
don't get discouraged if you screw up. I did. But its easy to fix screw
ups and try again. It took me a few times too, but in the end I nailed it,
and i have a beautiful bus. The articles in the type2.com library were my
guide on paint application. I'd start there

If anoyone has anyone questions, send them my way. I am more than happy to
give advice or recommendations. eddie(-at-)gacker.com


Good luck!




I plan to paint my pontiac soon :)

Eddie Goodwin
'74 Westy
