From: "Will Anderson" <wha(-at-)alumni.princeton.edu>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 1 Sep 2004 17:08:01 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] Paint-it-yourselfers (long)

By coincidence, this week I am deep in the throes of painting (still
prepping, actually) my '70 Westy that has 5 coats of different kinds of
paint from its tour days.  the top coat is a thick coat of rustoleum black
that is kind of like mud.  I have to go at least below that coat to get
anything solid, using a high-speed angle grinder with a wire wheel.  Most
areas I am down to primer, bare metal, or bondo in hopes of making paint
stick.  Luckily I have a low-humidity garage to keep it in this week until I
can start spraying this weekend.  I plan to do all my spraying outside and
expect to end up with a few bugs in the finish.  They say you need a
positive-pressure ventilator to work in an enclosed space such as a garage.
Since I don't have such a breathing system, I am working outside with a
basic organic vapor respirator.

A few years ago, I bought the $50 Harbor Freight nicer model spray gun, and
a Craftsman 30 Gallon air compressor, this one was on sale at the time for
around $250:
http://www.sears.com/sr/javasr/product.do?BV_UseBVCookie=Yes&vertical=TOOL&f
romAuto=YES&bidsite=CRAFT&pid=00916731000

If I had to do it again I would save up to buy a better compressor (~$500
range) as that one is not sufficient to run a DA sander continuously or a
spray gun, you have to stop a lot to let it catch up.  It is CRITICAL to
have water traps, filters and desiccators in the line (away from the hot
compressor where the water has time to condense), if you are in the humid
southeast like me.

the HF spray gun does OK, at least as good as my limited prep skills, I
would rather have a gravity feed rather than siphon feed in hindsight (helps
when you get down to the low spots to shoot upward).

I am using PPG DP40LF epoxy 2-part primer, about 50 bucks a quart with
hardener.  It is an excellent sealer, and lays down flat if you spray it
right, or if you spray it wrong it makes a pebble finish.  Dries extremely
hard and is non-sandable, so I might be using a sanding primer in some parts
(also PPG), not sure yet how it will come out but it put a nice pebble on
the nose of my bug.  I expect to use about 2 quarts of the stuff.

Topcoat will be PPG Delstar acrylic enamel with a medium-speed reducer,
about $60 per quart, I think based on my bug experiences I will go through 1
qt of white above the belt and 2 for below the belt.  Lotus white above the
beltline, dark blue below.  No clearcoat, I don't think it would help that
much and there are a lot of imperfections in the base.  I considered going
with a urethane enamel but the paint guy told me it costs more.  Poptop will
be Interlux yacht urethane enamel based on list recommendations.

With all the prep I have to do (including replacing some old bondo with new
bondo) I expect this job to take about 40-50 man-hours total.  Local bus
enthusiast Josh Brothers is helping me out on the project, once previously a
few years ago when I had started the job I got overwhelmed and had to quit.
This time it will get done.  There is a lot of bondo being revealed.  Life
span of the bus is limited.  Rust never sleeps.

If I really had to do it again, I would probably just take it to Maaco.
Cost about the same and a lot less trouble, probably comparable results
based on my skills.  Then again, they probably wouldn't bother to strip off
all the rustoleum. . .

Will A.
'70 Westy "Rebertha"
