Date: Thu, 4 Dec 2003 13:31:48 -0600
From: "Hayden,James P." <James.Hayden(-at-)cna.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: 1600 T3 in a 78 Westy Q's (long - sorry!)

Ahem!

And with all due respect, David, you seriously need to rethink your
drink, man... :-)  And I mean that in the best possible construction.
Why in the name of all that is VW do you want to put a puny little,
failure prone, easily melted down, Type 1 motor into your '78?  And then
strap EVEN more dead-weight to it, in the form of a long block.
Seriously...  (memo to self - install fire-proof unnawears right...
about...  now!)  Start thinking as our good friend the Goot Herr Doktor
preacheth-eth:  "Least cost per mile..."  with an em-PHA-sis on "per
mile".  And I'm not trying to pick a P** for Dee fight either - if your
heart is truly set on sticking with the Type 1 as the end-all, be-all
powerplant for your bus, then just ditch the '78 in favor of a '71 and
plug away.  You know, the Bay Window that Type 1 motor guys prefer...
Give/sell/lease the '78 to someone who knows, loves and enjoys the turf.

The money that you will have to spend on making that Type 1 motor as
near bullet-proof as that 2.0L Type 4 THAT belongs in the '78 will
astound you - see below.  If you built the T4 meet, right & proper, you
will not need to be lugging around enough cr*p to sink the friggin'
Bismarck - bottom line.  (No friggin' Bismarcks were harmed in the
typing of that statement).  Start by NOT skimping on the heads - new
ones or better yet, have good ol' Adrian at Headflow Masters do 'em up
as rebuilts for a tiny little bit more coin than what that Gee Eeee
Yuckies place charges, or used to charge.  Adrian KNOWS what needs to be
done to make 'em right.  If you don't want to send 'em to SoCal, give a
shout-out to the list for somebody in your local area who knows WTF they
are doing to make a meet, right and proper T4 rebuilt head.  Don't skimp
on the cam either - 2 words here:  "Web" and "Cam"...  'Nuf said.  Punch
up the compression ratio a bit too - my buses like at least 8:1, and
there are those who chide me for running such low CRs, but it IS in a
bus, you know.  Yeah, yeah, yeah, we all know how horribly expensive
that Type 4 stuff is...  "OHMIGAWD - I can buy Type 1 stuff for half the
money..."  And it will last you half as long too - probably even less if
you're unlucky!  You have stepped up to the plate, my friend - suck it
up, and make us proud!  When we were young, we played with our toys, and
now we are big...

Make sure all the seals, plugs, and the little things are in place on
that Type 4 motor.  Make it look like the day it left the factory in
that regard.  No cheating and leaving things off - remember: "parts not
incorporated in the first place cost nothing and give no service
problems"...  DO NOT LEAVE OUT THE FLAP ASSEMBLY IN THE IMPELLER
HOUSING!  And yes, I just shouted that!  Leave it out if you want a
dead, "expensive" Type 4 motor, guaranteed...  Anyone who tells you to
leave it has a hidden, financial agenda that involves your pocketbook,
they hate Type 4s and probably you too.  If you want to not run the
thermostat, be our guest - it'll still kill that motor, just more
slowly.  Many of the missing pieces (and I hope your missing piece count
is low) can be run down over at bustedbus.com, if your local boneyards
are low on bus bits.  Unfortunately, the trend to leave off the "best
bits" extends to the 'yards too, so you may not have much luck finding
pieces there either.  Reinstall the FI (if it's still there), please
don't run an 009 on the T4, and if you value your sanity - you'll leave
the progressive Weber alone too.  If your local climate (political and
otherwise) permits, a nice set of 36 or 40 DRLA Dellortos, a combination
mechanical/vacuum dizzy and CDI box, makes driving fun again!  And you
may actually get pretty good mileage too.  A well maintained set of
duals will not require that much time out of your busy day either - I
can't speak for Webers, but all my Type 4 powered vehicles with Dells
have been pretty much a "get 'em dialed in, and check in on 'em every
6-8-10 months or so" proposition.  9.999758 times out of 10 they have
been dead on the money when checked-up on.  If anything, what has caused
problems has been "questionably" designed aftermarket stuff, and not any
fault of the carbs themselves.  Contrary to what some may tell you,
Dellorto parts ARE available from one of the usual hi-po suspects, i.e.
CB Performance - the original importers.

And get yourself a large piece of plywood to work on instead in the dirt
- that just had to bl*w/s*ck in ways I cannot imagine!  And if you can
leave off some of the more ungainly pieces of the Type 4 (like the
exhaust-work) it becomes a bit more manageable as a package - install
'em once the long block is secured in place.  And last but not least - I
just paid $2,000 for a professionally built (and NEW everything) 1776cc
Type 1 for the wife's Ghia, and near $500 for HIGH quality exhaust
system that actually FITS the motor - to replace the near $500 P.O.S
that DIDN'T fit.  The 2260cc Type 4 I built for my '72 set me back a bit
over $4,000 in parts, mostly because I did things like buying 96mm JE
forged pistons ($450) and LN's Biral Babies ($750), and went overboard
on NEW hi-po Type 4 heads (-at-) $600 each.  Headflow does T4 heads in 42 x
36 for $175ish, and KB 96mm pistons + rings are only $250ish at
aircooled.net, Rimco charges about $125ish for the 94mm --> 96mm barrel
honing.  A good friend of mine has just spent close to $5,500 on parts
(to do it RIGHT) for a nice 2110cc Type 1 motor, and it still won't make
as many horsies, or last quite as long as the "mega-expensive" Type 4 in
my '72...  As he likes to say:  "Do the math..." and keep on chanting
"Lowest cost per mile..."  Remember too, that lots of Type 1 stuff is
just flat "done-for" in these modern times, so you are looking at new
parts IFF you want to maintain high reliability for that camper.  Me?  I
hate standing by the side of the road, scratching my <name a body part
here>, and wondering if the gravistatious has been asfulized.  Know what
I mean?

My spleen has now been properly vented (with a nice breather box BTW),
so I'm going back to the hole from whence I  crawled, and we return you
to your regularly scheduled programming...  Just sign me:

That Guy Who Likes Type 4s and Owns Many at...
www.savethebays.org
