From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K)
Date: Thu, 4 Dec 2003 22:50:17 -0600 (CST)
To: vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Cc: vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [vanagon] sand blasting/paint prep & walnut media???

Yo Will--

Look into a spot sand blatser-that comes with 4 different rubber
nozzles--thet fit concave, convex, and two different sixe round
areas--it has a recycling bag on the end of it that recaptures the
silica sand---and not too much goes into the air--

I bought it to sand blast a 45 ft. aluminum grain hopper bottom
trailer's steel rivets--- --all 2500 of them that had rust on them.
With the round tip on it--it was put on the rivet head--hit the trigger
and the head of the steel rivet was clean from the rust on them--
I primed with zinc chromate--then Uro Primed the area's and then painted
the trailer with PPG white urethane.
It'll last the farmer's I  did it for for probably 10--15 years--

This spot sand blaster is perfect for seam rust on the Vanagons--with
the wide concave tip--perfect clean up of the rust in a controlled
area--

Cost?

$45.00 from Snappy---it's a great tool, and perfect for what you
described you want to do--

Have fun--

Terry


E-mail message

From: wil(-at-)charmfx.com (Wil Haslup) Date: Thu, Dec 4, 2003, 9:44pm
(CST+2) To: vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com, type2(-at-)type2.com Subject: [vanagon]
sand blasting/paint prep & walnut media??? Reply to:
vanagon(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Hi,
I've been following the various conversations about painting and prep
and have a question.
I haven't seen anyone mention sand-blasting as a way to really clean
up an old bus/vanagon?  Is this a big no-no?
Has anyone used the walnut or corn cob blast media....I'm thinking of
trying this and want something that isn't silica based.  I'll wear a
mask but still prefer something organic.
My vanagon has a bit of surface rust, rust around 5 windows, a dent in
the sliding door and rear quarter wheel well and assorted dings.
Most of this was there when I got it from the PO.  I've dremeled a
fair amount of the rust around the windows and spots and primered with
a spray can to keep things from getting worse through the winter.
The vanagon has been repainted prior to this and many areas in the
front show significant crackle from a poor job.  I need to remove as
much paint as possible and prime for the new paint job.
I may simply swap out my sliding door (drivers door too, hinges are a
bit sprung and it sags plus has rust around window) if I can find
suitable replacements that only require light cleanup and paint.
I've heard sand blasting can create ripples in the metal if you aren't
careful.  I don't intend on removing all the paint but there are areas
in the front, the roof, the rear hatch that need to be taken down a
lot and grinding with sand paper on large areas will take forever. 
Sincerely,
--
--Wil
