Date: Thu, 04 Dec 2003 23:33:06 -0600
To: type2(-at-)pon.type2.com
From: Gregory Urban <urban(-at-)yaic.com>
Subject: Hello from new member

I just wanted to officially introduce myself to this fine list.  For those 
who didn't read my earlier post, I am the proud new owner of a 1968 
Kombi.  The bus was my uncle's who bought it new in San Francisco, where it 
lived for 35 years.  In 1971 it traversed the country to NY and back, but 
most of the 155,000 miles were driven in California and neighboring states.

Three weeks ago my friend and I drove the bus to its new home in 
Chicago.  Before the journey, the bus received an oil change, tune-up, 
valve adjustment, and rear brake job.  I documented the trip at 
http://www.gigagreg.com/bus-trip

There is a link to some pictures that I have not gotten around to 
organizing yet.  The bus is pretty stock, the major addition is electron 
ignition.  I had to laugh reading about Jennifer's trip from SC to NY.  We 
joked about going cross country 200 miles at a time, as at each fuel stop 
during the first 2 days we put in 9.5 - 10.5 gallons regardless of how low 
the gauge read.  We also were surprised at the amount of heat we managed to 
keep in the bus (and how great wool socks are).  The trip also made me a 
little nostalgic for home, as I'm originally an east coast boy having lived 
17 years in NY (LI) and 7 years in Annapolis, MD.

My biggest issue is to keep the bus from rusting.  And the number 2 issue 
is finding an inside sliding door handle.  I managed to break it the first 
day.  The plan is to use the bus on weekends to haul stuff as needed, and 
to use it during the week as a station car for my commute to work.  This is 
my fourth "old car", having had earlier stints with a 68 Porsche 912, 65 
Corvair Corsa Convertable, and a 71 Triumph TR-6.  This is also my 4th VW, 
my earlier cars were an 86 GTI, an 89 GTI-16V, and my current 96 Passat GLX.

The door locks don't work, the horn is a big knob on the dashboard, it's 
painted several colors with a brush, and the heaters are stuck in the "on" 
position.  But there is no rust, the engine runs like a top, and in Chicago 
we need the heat 9 months out of the year anyway.  In other words, its a 
beauty!  There will be no exterior work until after it's first show :-)

I'm sure I will have lots of questions for the list in the very near 
future, and judging by the posts I've read so far it looks like I'm in good 
hands.

Greg Urban
1968 VW Kombi
