From: "Bill Harris" <billha(-at-)cut.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 5 Dec 2003 06:57:20 -0700
Subject: Re: Easy Out

Hi Mick,

Sounds like your discovering why the stud broke...  If the stud/bolt is
siezed, getting it out is going to be a real pain.  In my experience,
the easiest approach is to apply heat to help break whatever corrosion
bond is holding the bolt into the casting.  If the situation is
"unheatable" then the next best thing is to drill out almost all the
stud/bolt and hope that by reducing it to a shadow of it's former self I
can work it out.  When that fails, I just drill the whole thing and use
one of the various rethreading techniques (tap, helicoil, threadsert,
etc.)  As far as the use of the screw extractor is concerned, I tap it
gently into the hole to help the teeth bite with a small hammer and then
use the appropriately sized wrench/visegrip to turn it with liberal
applications and waiting times of PB Blaster.  If you've been chucking
the actual screw extractor in your drill and spinning it (I assume in
reverse) I would think the teeth on the extractor are pretty much gone.

Hope that helps,
Bill

Date: Thu, 4 Dec 2003 19:09:36 -0800 (PST)
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Michael Mcfadden <munkeewrench7(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: easy out exaust stud not so easy?
Message-ID: <20031205030936.34817.qmail(-at-)web12905.mail.yahoo.com>

Ok,

preface: i've never used an easy out before please tell me i'm just
skipping a step or something here.

while the engine is out of the beast and perched on the bench at eye
level i decided to have a go at that blasted exhaust stud that i broke
off on the last go around. So i soaked it with penetrating oil bought
myself a handy dandy 5/64 screw extractor drilled in set the extractor
but she 's a no coming out. am I missing something here. I've got a nice
heavy duty milwaukee 1/2 '' drill tightened the crap out of the chuck
down on the suare part of the extractor at the very end but it just
spins. Is there a tool that i should use to turn the easy extractor
with. tried a vice grip???? is 5/64 not a good size for this stud

Why do they call it an Easy out it has been anything but?

Thanks in advance to those of you who've been there done that for all of
the advice.

Mick
