Date: Sun, 7 Feb 2010 21:35:38 -0800 (PST)
From: j syder <scintilla_22(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Cc: Jeff Newman <jeff(-at-)totalsoundproductions.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Steering column part

If you do find a bearing that is a tiny bit too large on OD but correct in
width and id you can spin grind it by hand.  It seems a bit brutal at first
glance but works fine.  Put a shaft through the ID and present the OD to a
belt sander,  1" x 42" is what I prefer, or a bench grinder. SLOWLY remove
material. If you cant hold the bearing with bare hands,  it is getting too
hot. I find it works best to put a little angle on the shaft and work it back
and forth.  Measure often, and try fit if possible.  Allowing the bearing to
spin will even out the material removal well enough.  Now, we are not talking
F1 Mercedes cam bearing, just for slow-speed steering-column bearing, eh.  Get
a slip fit and Loctite will do the rest.  Sealed bearings only, and I would
pop the seals, wash out the grease, and re-lube after getting a fit.

Thin sleeves Loctited on the OD will work for bearings that are a tiny bit too
small.  Or use Mr Anderson's JB Weld sleeve.  I make my centering spacers out
of layers of scotch tape.  Figure out the packing thickness. Lay up a strip of
scotch tape layers equal to that thickness on a piece of glass, cut
appropriate width sections with a sharp razor and space equally around the
outer race. JB Weld on the outer race and inside the housing.  Slide together
carefully.  Warm to 180F if possible-makes the epoxy 3x to 5x as strong.
 
If you read the product literature, choose the correct product, and use as
directed the anaerobic adhesive/fasteners i.e. Loctite come in all kinds of
gap filling varieties that do a very good job.  You must follow the directions
(clean, prime, product) to get good results.
 
I agree with Roberts suggestions on bushings, and I too have had much luck
with all kinds of bushings; including a sliding door bushing brazed into the 
steel "tire" when we needed one at short notice in a remote place this last
fall.  Gave us a little trouble with side thrust popping off the circlip. 
Solved by silver-soldering a washer on the end of the shaft instead of the
circlip. Kept the fisherman owner happy until he left to winter in Panama. 
Long before it wears out I expect to have a replacement unit in hand.

jon

ps I was one of the trolley drivers with ball races on wood axles.  A bit
north of Khandallah.  Waipukarau for those familiar with the neighborhood ;) 
My Dad rebuilt gearboxes, and worked on trucks and buses, so I had access to
numerous larger ball bearings. IIRC we also nailed complete roller skates
(steel-wheeled strap-on kind, when they became unfashionable) on boards and
rode them prone . The noise of metal wheels on chip seal drove the adults
crazy, and they were worthless for corners. j

"Always remember that you often find outstanding people among those you don't
particularly like." Soichiro Honda
