Date: Tue, 16 Feb 2010 11:31:05 +1300
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] Tried to explain!!

At 5:00 PM -0800 13/2/10, S{QU}ID wrote:
>The other day I was out walking and spotted this nice '67 Beetle, with
>a.."megaphone' on it...no muffler..just that!  Tried to explain that it was
>prolly not 'good' for an aircooled motor, but then..got to thinking...what
>harm..other than 'dialing' in the carb..did that 'megaphone' ..do?  With no
>back pressure from the exhaust sytem, are the valves at harm?   ...

	It isn't generally true that a megaphone will necessarily 
give you "no back pressure from the exhaust system".
	I take it the rig Sid saw was a 4-into-1 exh manifold, 
leading into a megaphone.  That would be needlessly, illegally loud. 
Whether it gave more or less power is unpredictable.
	The megaphone was evolved to give suction at the exhaust 
port, but can do so over only a limited rev range.  Its performance 
is affected by many factors, including the length & diameter of the 
pipe between the port & the megaphone.  Notice too that more modern 
megaphones have a 'reverse cone' on the end.

	If you want more power (which most VW owners do <:-| ) AND 
extreme quiet (not nearly so many :-| ), make a tornado muffler.  The 
late Julian Davis, a motorcycling cobber of my youth, bought a new 
Matchless 500 single c.1960 and when the original (noisy) muffler 
rotted out bought the stainless, larger-dia muffler for an NSU Max 
250 single.  This made the bike extremely quiet  -  you could lean 
down on the tank and hear the deflagration in the cylinder as you 
pulled away from a slow corner, and the exhaust was practically 
inaudible, quieter even than the then-new Honda Dream Wonder.
	This NSU muffler had a stainless rod, 2 or 3 mm dia, along 
the axis.  Located by pairs of locknuts at 3 evenly-spaced bursts of 
thread were stainless discs blocking the whole plurry lumen except 
for (in each disc) 3 x  3mm slots equally spaced as radii, 
reminiscent of a Benz insignium but of course not coming right into 
the centre; and the disc dia was 6 mm short of the ID of the shell. 
The axial rod was located distally by locknuts outside a small spider 
at the outer end of a stainless 'cone' which narrowed; I forget how 
the rod was located nearest the exhaust port, but I guess a spider 
spot-welded in.
	Although the performance was already better than with the 
original loud Matchless "muffler", we decided to try for more power 
while maintaining impressive quiet.  This was achieved by twisting 
the "120-degree-wide" blades defined by the equally-spaced slots, so 
that the gaps became wider than 3 mm (especially towards the 
outside), each disc now resembled a 3-blade propeller, and the 
exhaust gases were forced to travel as a vortex or tornado along the 
muffler.  The bike continued quieter than any other, but was now 
markedly more powerful than original.  Noise does not equal shaft 
horsepower!
	Today one would use continuously-threaded rod; no need for 
smooth stretches.  The end-'cone' may not be needed  -  I'm intending 
to try a 'bigger disc' dia c.6mm more than the shell OD, and crimp 
the edge over  ...

	The spirit of Munro would indicate used tin-lids for the 
discs; they would rust, but by then you'd be wanting to try some 
change anyway, in the pitch of the blades, the circumferential gap, 
etc.

	I'm not holding this till Friday because making better 
mufflers yourself should count as Bus Content, no?


-- 
Robt Mann
Whangaparaoa, New Zealand
'73 VW 1600 Devon camper
'53 Meteor V8
various Jawa-CZ and Jawa-NZ strokers
