Date: Tue, 16 Feb 2010 13:08:23 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Single Cab value opinions?

So I'm going to seek some opinions, as the last SC I bought I only gave $1k
for (the good ole days.)
 
First, this is in AK, now I'm not sure what that does to value, it is a bit
hard to say as shipping something up here costs money, but it costs money to
ship down, so our market is pretty much out market, and the market for someone
wanting one is a bit small.  Anyway just want opinions of value in lower 48.
 
Truck is a '69, is generally complete, intact truck.  Only outstanding missing
items are both treasure chest locks (always a PITA $$ to find.)  Condition as
follows:
 
Nose has some putty, old repairs over hits, no real rust I fell, not even
behind bumper, a bit of covered surface at windshield appears better than
most, but that is always more decieving than it appears of course.  Similarly
doglegs very solid, no real rust, or minor repairs at most.  Front floors,
both outer edges, average perforations in the pressed dimples, has crappy long
ago sheet metal with wood screws over top.  Probably will repair with the
outer panels only (shipping a repro pan up here would cost $400 in shipping.) 
The area that goes behind front wheels in the wheelwells is solid on drivers,
moderately gone on passengers (no holes but bubbling up quite a bit,) but I've
seen far, far, worse.
 
Bed is dented to hell (work truck) wood all, long, long gone, much surface
rust, nothing through to cursory look.  Treasure chest with pinpoint
perforations in several locations, much surface rust, and one area (passenger
side behind the wheelwell panel) with about a 1" x 6" perforation across
several of the floor ribs.  Drivers jack points, rocker, very solid, treasure
chest door, surface on bottom inside, but solid.
 
Passenger side, both jack points will need done, but would be useable (could
jack it) as is, rocker seems OK, weatherseal lip at latch is pretty rough,
bottom of the treasure door perforated to the outside, and the bottom
stiffener inside pretty much gone in multiple locations.
 
Frame solid overall.  Battery tray needs done.  Needs a rear hatch but an OK
one included.  Gates are very rust free, very solid, but have taken a beating
(was worked in a tree farm) will never be beautiful (just like the bed) but
truely are 100% solid at the bottoms, very thin on top of rear gate where
stuff was piled in and pulled over year to year of work.  Front doors solid
but had big ole American truck mirrors with 3 big holes in each so nice extra
set with perfect interior panels (correct '69 doors as well) included.
 
Engine and tranny non origninal 1600DP, runs out OK (original block and tranny
included, tranny died, then engine seized after 5 years of sitting.)  Brakes
solid, new non reinforced rubber unfortunately.  Glass good, windshield mildly
edge fogged but useable, rear glass nice.  Electrical mostly intact,
everything lights, fuse box hanging by zip ties though.  Wipers slooooowwww
but work.  Interior serviceable (one big seam split on 2/3 seat.)
 
Comparing to samba ads at present, this is somewhat better than things asking
$1500-2000 right now I "think."  Asking is $4500, which I don't think it is
however.  But I'm a bit out of touch, it is moderately more solid than my last
'70, which like I said was $1000 and I did admittedly sell it for $2000 back
in about '01 or '02.  I'm looking perhaps at a trade here so need to figure
what sort of relative value it has.
 
Thoughts, opinions, recent similar sales $$$ data all appreciated.
 
John
