Date: Tue, 16 Feb 2010 23:55:41 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Welding

I had sent a pmail to Bob, thinking this was a pretty easy question probably
answered countless times, but I'll put it here.  I've done several, my first
in 1986.  I don't know who made the metal over the years, I got them in the
late 80s to early 90s from Mill Supply, or even JC Whitless, probably cheap
ass asian pressings, fit fine, I've bought a couple from BD, and from several
others over the years, I see BD has a genuine VW one now, I've never noticed
an appreciable quality difference in any, not everything is going to fit every
bus of course.  But real VW does seem good if the same price doesn't it?  (And
does anyone have a source for '69 SC ones BTW as it is looking like I may soon
have the need and I haven't seen em in years.)
 
Anyway what I wrote to Bob.
 
I don't know if there is a particular best method a lot depends on how well it
fits and where it fits well.  I tend to weld to the outside first just doing
my standard method of plug welds in punched holes (in the lip edge, I have one
of those reversible die flanger/punchers to make the holes), then to the
inside and wheelwell, because if fit insn't great and it requires some hammer
massage, I would as rather pound it up flush to the frame and wheelwell then
to the outside to risk deformation.  The flip is you do it the otherway, and
then can nicely cleco or even rivet and drill em out and weld up the holes on
the outside to get it to pull up.  Really probably depends on how well it
fits, your bus.  I just plug weld, and then seal with a good seam sealer, top
and bottom, and of course, in the future battery tray or mat (the mat gets
argued, I've had good luck personally) or even better of course, sealed Optima
battery and never worry again.
 
I like drilled holes and plug welds because I'm good at that, anyone who does
any body work gets good at it, looks like a spot weld sort of when done. 
Doing short sections of bead every couple inches as the samba article suggests
is same difference.  Continuous (even if done in short sections to forestay
warping) is overkill, shit 8 plug welds total would probably hold it in
forever if well done and I probably do 20-30 total.  Back in the day when
Metwhiz still followed would be interesting to know what he suggests.  The
epoxy idea is damn interesting.  That stuff has come an amazing way for body
repair.  For a runner I wouldn't discount it, but to me it just ain't right.
 
Anyway proper sealing afterwards for a welded repair is absolutely mandatory. 
Clean, then DP40 primer, then high quality seam sealer, both sides, then DP40,
then topcoat, then undercoat below.  Use a POR product if you will, as I've
said many times, I don't trust em 100% myself.
 
John


--- On Tue, 2/16/10, David Schwarze <dschwarze(-at-)dfwair.net> wrote:



I may buy the busdepot.com battery tray for $25 and reuse the outer edge of
the old tray so as not to mess up the outer body surface of the bus.  One guy
said he welded his from the bottom, that sounds like a good idea since it is
easier to access than the top (at least with a welding helmet on).
