Date: Sat, 20 Feb 2010 09:05:02 -0800
From: Heather Woltz <vwdreamer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>, 
Subject: An Update of the Articulated VW Bus - BusZilla II

Hello all,

As per request from several friends at the last Wet Westies Nehalem Bay
campout (I also apologize for cross posting for those who are on both
lists).

If you may remember we were in a bit of a crunch to get BusZilla II done in
time for Burning Man. We had tremendous help from a pretty awesome group of
people and were able to make it to Burning Man!

Only a week before Burning Man, at Mogfest, we had not completed the Bellows
(the bendy/accordion part). Fortunately, the last 5 days were almost 24/7
finishing the little bits, which were oh so important.

We made it to the playa with no issues, and put her costume on (the spine,
lights, scales, shade cloth/skin), and only to be denied by the Burning Man
DMV (Dept of Mutant Vehicles). I was holding back tears! We were told that
it looked too much like a vw bus, and it had no "WOW" factor. So we decided
to head back to camp and try again (despite being told to enjoy myself and
to just try again next year). I made several more hoops to beef up the tail,
Mary P and I had fun with zip ties! LOL while the dragon mouth/teeth were
being constructed on the front! We also added more shade cloth over the
windows to cover up the "VW" bits.

We tried again with much support from VW Bus Campers (Thank you Gary Gibson,
Annie Humiston, Lynda M.) and some BM Rangers (Tzara and Kiote!), and we got
our day AND night permit!!! Woo Hoo!!!

Thanks again to everyone, please check out the blog for more information,
pictures and videos:

http://mutantbus.com

We will soon have the new plans for the upgrades to BusZilla II's costume
this year!
Thanks again for following and supporting us!

-- 
Heather Woltz
'71 VW Bus: Riviera Camper - BusZilla: 2007cc
'71 VW Bus: Adventurewagen/Safare - Rosie
'84 Mercedes 300SD: Veggie Oil baby!
http://www.vwdreamer.com
--------------------------------------------------------
"Well-behaved women seldom make history." - Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
