Date: Wed, 12 Apr 2006 23:55:43 -0400
From: Dave Wolfanger <dwolf(-at-)bluefrog.com>
To: Diane Vee <v_uu(-at-)hotmail.com>,  type2(-at-)type2.com, 
Subject: Re: [T2] RE-INTRO Been Away for a Year Now - but I am back

Diane-
Your persistence in life parallels your afinity for that bus.

I see the bug muffler still exits through the bumper.
The bumpers should have been removed to paint inside
(*any exterior paint should have some cleaning/preparation).
So it looks like not much prep on the body behind them too.
I'm sure the intention to leave windows in was part of the price,
which will develop into future problems.
The primer looks very poor for application, and I question if
the marker paint will bleed through the finish color at some point.
It should be obvious now as solvents evaporate, but can come later.
Tape is usually removed as soon as possible. 3M Blue masking tape
is a good material, it will not pull paint off in strips.

It would be proper to request all the uncatalyzed paint be removed,
which will be very expensive labor. It won't sand very well.
The shop will not be inclined to do that, and if you are not there,
they will sand down the sags and repaint directly over it.
Ger the brand name off the paint cans and take the bus to another shop
for a consultation before you let that shop do any more work.

I'm sending your original post over to the vintagebus list.
Dave


-------- Original Message --------
Subject: [T2] RE-INTRO Been Away for a Year Now - but I am back again
Date: Wed, 12 Apr 2006 20:57:11 -0400
From: Diane Vee <v_uu(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com

AN AFTER THOUGHT >>> FIRST .. I tend to be a bit LONG WINDED .. so you might
want to skim through this and go right to the bottom for my question ..
Thanks . . <<<<

It has been a really bad year for me ..  more than that actually.  About 2
years ago, one of my closest friend passed away from cancer .. Last January
my 4 year old grandson got cancer and passed away in August .. Last month I
got a phone call that my i2nd best friend since high school has ... CANCER
~~  Went to Miami 2 weekends ago to visit her .. I don't think I will get to
see her again if I don't get back this weekend or next at the latest.  I
decided to try and make it down there rather than the funeral .. I have had
enough funerals already ....

Anyway .. I am Diane, 67 bus .. always a project but a daily driver that
pretty much never lets me down.  I do 60 miles a day round trip back and
forth to work.  Everything I do with the bus since day 1 turns into a
disaster .. Her and I are like twins ..

Most recently I had her painted ..  Until then she was painted purple with
flowers and peace signs and the like .. I know that not many bus owners are
old hippies ... but I am and I am the one who did the purple tye dye with
the flowers.  I used to keep a bucket of paint pens, like the kind you use
on model airplanes in the back and when I would visit the grandkids they
would say, "can we color on the bus ??"  and I would tell them "sure, you
know where the paint is .. "  It was really hard painting over all that ..
especially with my grandson being gone now, but when he was sick he told me
how he wanted the bus painted ..  and I promised I would paint it that way
..  so I did.  GREEN << his favorite color ... ORANGE << my granddaughters
favorite color and PINK << mine and my daughters favorite color .. My bus is
named Molly, after the movie "Pretty in Pink."  Molly Ringwald starred in
the movie and I would always say that I thought the bus would look PRETTY IN
PINK .. and that is how she got her name, Molly Majik ..  I considered
painting it yellow and naming it Banana Splitty ..  But wanted to fulfill my
promise to my grandson and paint it his favorite color .. and I wanted a
more 'normal' paint job .. GREEN, PINK and ORANGE .

So I ended up with the paint job from hell .. they really messed up and
didn't put enough hardener in the paint and so they are going to sand it
down this coming monday and re-do the entire job.  It has been a month ..
said I needed to wait for the paint to cure ..  Not only was the paint soft,
but they were sloppy .. runs, one color splashed on another ... didn't even
take off the emblem to paint the front . . BUT THAT'S NOTHING compared to
how the story ended .. they said "we are going to have to re-paint your CAR
.. but that has to wait a month .. it is ready come get it .. "  What they
forgot to tell me was that the first day it was there, someone broke the
shifter ..  I got in the CAR to drive away after being dropped off and there
was the shifter .. flopping around .. connected to NOTHING ..  Sure it is
old .. but I fixed it once only a few years ago when it just came loose.
Even if it just came loose again, I was there every day taking pictures of
the paint progress .. you would think that someone would mention,  "you
better bring a tow truck when you come back for it."  They had been pushing
it from bay to bay ..

http://www.jangle.us  You can see her there .. See the old paint and the new
. . The roof was supposed to be pink and the pink was supposed to be a
different color but other than that and the paint can be removed with your
fingernail .. and they painted the rubber .. and ... and ... It's a great
job.

So I had the bus towed to be repaired.  Let the guy who did it a few years
ago do it again.  Hte couldn't get it back together.  Towed it somewhere
else . . They got something backwards and I could shift from 1st to reverse
if I wasn't careful .. so I took it back and they put it back right.  A few
days later it fell apart again.  TOWED IT BACK TO THEM .. they welded and
welded .. the mechanic said the weld should hold longer than the bus ..

SO .. The MAIN REASON .. other than telling you my life story was to say
that I wanted to maybe take it to Miami [from Orlando] in a few weeks and
the shifting makes me nervous .. IT SHIFTS SO EASY from one gear to the next
.. I am afraid it is falling apart.  I even took it back to the mechanic I
was so sure the weld wasn't holding .. he looked . Told me to shift hard ..
over and over .. he said .. beat it up .. if it is going to fall apart ..
let it do it here, rather than on the road .. I did reverse .. speed shifted
..  etc etc .. it didn't come loose .  The mechanic says that the gears are
lined up perfectly and that is why it is shifting so smooth .. but I was
hoping for an opinion ..  Could there be something he is missing .. the
stick feels a little wobbley .. side to side feels like it should be tighter
.. everything seems loose .. or was it that I drove it for years and there
was something wrong ..
e
Thanks in advance for your opinions .. obviously I don't know how to do
anything myself . . I know I should .. I have books .. the archives here ..
etc etc .. I am just not at ease getting in the bus and driving it if I was
the mechanic working on it ..

SORRY FOR THE EPIC NOVEL ... Diane in Orlando
