Date: Thu, 13 Apr 2006 00:16:56 -0400
From: Diane Vee <send2diane(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re-Intro Again .. maybe ?? Sending problems

This will be my last attempt tonight.. SORRY.. My other address
doesn't seem to be posting.

AN AFTER THOUGHT >>> FIRST .. I tend to be a bit LONG WINDED .. so you
might want to skim through this and go right to the bottom for my
question .. Thanks . . <<<< It has been a really bad year for me ..
more than that actually. About 2 years ago, one of my closest friend
passed away from cancer .. Last January my 4 year old grandson got
cancer and passed away in August .. Last month I got a phone call that
my i2nd best friend since high school has ... CANCER ~~


Everything I do with the bus since day 1 turns into a disaster .. Her
and I are like twins .. Most recently I had her painted .. Until then
she was painted purple with flowers and peace signs and the like .. I
know that not many bus owners are old hippies ... but I am and I am
the one who did the purple tye dye with the flowers. I used to keep a
bucket of paint pens, like the kind you use on model airplanes in the
back and when I would visit the grandkids they would say, "can we
color on the bus ??" and I would tell them "sure, you know where the
paint is .. " It was really hard painting over all that .. especially
with my grandson being gone now, but when he was sick he told me how
he wanted the bus painted .. and I promised I would paint it that way
.. so I did. GREEN << his favorite color ... ORANGE << my
granddaughters favorite color and PINK << mine and my daughters
favorite color .. My bus is named Molly, after the movie "Pretty in
Pink." Molly Ringwald starred in the movie and I would always say that
I thought the bus would look PRETTY IN PINK .. and that is how she got
her name, Molly Majik .. I considered painting it yellow and naming it
Banana Splitty .. But wanted to fulfill my promise to my grandson and
paint it his favorite color .. and I wanted a more 'normal' paint job
.. GREEN, PINK and ORANGE . So I ended up with the paint job from hell
.. they really messed up and didn't put enough hardener in the paint
and so they are going to sand it down this coming monday and re-do the
entire job. It has been a month .. said I needed to wait for the paint
to cure .. Not only was the paint soft, but they were sloppy .. runs,
one color splashed on another ... didn't even take off the emblem to
paint the front . . BUT THAT'S NOTHING compared to how the story ended
.. they said "we are going to have to re-paint your CAR .. but that
has to wait a month .. it is ready come get it .. " What they forgot
to tell me was that the first day it was there, someone broke the
shifter .. I got in the CAR to drive away after being dropped off and
there was the shifter .. flopping around .. connected to NOTHING ..
Sure it is old .. but I fixed it once only a few years ago when it
just came loose. Even if it just came loose again, I was there every
day taking pictures of the paint progress .. you would think that
someone would mention, "you better bring a tow truck when you come
back for it." They had been pushing it from bay to bay ..
http://www.jangle.us You can see her there .. See the old paint and
the new . . The roof was supposed to be pink and the pink was supposed
to be a different color but other than that and the paint can be
removed with your fingernail .. and they painted the rubber .. and ...
and ... It's a great job. So I had the bus towed to be repaired. Let
the guy who did it a few years ago do it again. Hte couldn't get it
back together. Towed it somewhere else . . They got something
backwards and I could shift from 1st to reverse if I wasn't careful ..
so I took it back and they put it back right. A few days later it fell
apart again. TOWED IT BACK TO THEM .. they welded and welded .. the
mechanic said the weld should hold longer than the bus .. SO .. The
MAIN REASON .. other than telling you my life story was to say that I
wanted to maybe take it to Miami [from Orlando] in a few weeks and the
shifting makes me nervous .. IT SHIFTS SO EASY from one gear to the
next .. I am afraid it is falling apart. I even took it back to the
mechanic I was so sure the weld wasn't holding .. he looked . Told me
to shift hard .. over and over .. he said .. beat it up .. if it is
going to fall apart .. let it do it here, rather than on the road .. I
did reverse .. speed shifted .. etc etc .. it didn't come loose . The
mechanic says that the gears are lined up perfectly and that is why it
is shifting so smooth .. but I was hoping for an opinion .. Could
there be something he is missing .. the stick feels a little wobbley
.. side to side feels like it should be tighter .. everything seems
loose .. or was it that I drove it for years and there was something
wrong .. e Thanks in advance for your opinions .. obviously I don't
know how to do anything myself . . I know I should .. I have books ..
the archives here .. etc etc .. I am just not at ease getting in the
bus and driving it if I was the mechanic working on it .. SORRY FOR
THE EPIC NOVEL ... Diane in Orlando
