Date: Thu, 13 Apr 2006 00:45:04 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: "C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc" <c.dreike(-at-)verizon.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] A new engine.

On Sat, 8 Apr 2006, C. Dreike, Advantage Automation, Inc wrote:

> Hi,

> Not sure too many of you folks will like this one. I am looking into doing a
> Subaru engine transplant into my 64DD delivery bus/camper. I'm just tired of
 the noise and vibration of the air cooled. First criteria is that the engine
 must fit without cutting any metal off the engine compartment in case I
 don't like it and want to go back. The exterior of the bus cannot be
> altered  either. I will have to cut the bolt in rear skirt to fit the
> cam pulleys.

I _think_ you can get it in without cutting the body, but you will
probably have to trim the rear skirt to clear the cam belt.

> Anyone out there have experience with doing this sort of transplant? I am
> looking into an EJ22 engine. 2.2 liters, 140hp.  I will get a beefed up
 trans with a 3.44 r&p to handle the extra power. I have found a fair amount
 of info on the web, especially from the Ausie mates. Seems they have done a
 few of them in bay buses. Two problems as I see it, the radiator and heater.
 Where do they go? A custom radiator could be installed on the side opposite
 the battery, however air flow could be a problem. I would not know until its
 installed and run. Being a DD, there is a belly pan that eliminates the
> underside for the radiator. The hollow area under the floor are actually not
> a bad location in a non-DD.

Is the area under your belly pans completely boxed in?  I'm not familiar
with the belly pan reinforcement, but if is bridges the frame rails it
might make a good duct for your cooling system with a radiator mounted
under the bus.  You will also need a throttle body inverter or to flip the
intake manifold around for clearance.  Another item is a shortened sump
for ground clearance.

aussieveedubbers.com and shoptalkforums.com are sites friendly to engine
conversion folks.  Lots of good info there

subynotch.com is a site illustrating the install of a EJ20 into a
notchback.

> Outback Motor Sports (www.outbackmotors.com) is not far from me and I have
> talked to them. They do dune buggies and specialize in Subaru's modified for
> hi power.

How "friendly" would they be in supplying parts for a bus swap?  Buses
really don't need those pretty 500HP turbo engines they sell, but they
have a few nice bits to offer.

George
