Date: Mon, 24 Apr 2006 04:24:57 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: VintageBus list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: Short Block Cleaning

> From: "Seth Matteson" <1matteson(-at-)earthlink.net>
> Date: Sun, 23 Apr 2006 17:18:56 -0400
>
> I've got my engine down to almost a short block

Nit: VWs don't have a "block".

> (P&Cs still on) and want to know from the list what is the general
> consensus on cleaning the old dirt, oil and grime from the engine?

I think the consensus is that it's a good idea, but I think you're
asking what kind of cleaning goop to use.  :)  I have had good luck with
the citrus-oil cleaners.  Home Despot sells some in a gallon jug for
about $9 or $10 that works pretty well.  The label says you can cut it
with water, but for greasy machine parts I just use it straight.  You
may want to use rubber gloves; this stuff is stronger than the
citrus-oil hand cleaner creams.

I also had pretty good luck cleaning gunk off of an aluminum (alloy?)
oil pan off of a F(-at-)rd (the gasket had been leaking) with the "wheel
cleaner" setting at the local self-serve car wash.  I think this stuff
is mildly caustic; it's not too strong because people will inevitably
get it on their paint instead of their wheels, but it did seem to do
more than just straight soap and water.

Clara (and others?) have talked of using Simple Green for external
engine de-gunking purposes.  I think Clara has said it works a little
better if the engine is a little warm, which is hard for you to do...
maybe leave it in the sun in the afternoon before you attack it.

You have the added excitement of trying to keep too much cleaning goop
from getting inside the engine.  It may be worth your time to visit the
hardware store for some rubber plugs for things like the oil cooler
passages, and maybe to fab a sheet metal plate (or use duct tape) to
cover the oil filler opening under the generator stand.

> Also what would everyone recommend to clean the carbon off of the
> piston tops?

Not sure on this one.  You might try soaking the carbon in your cleaning
fluid of choice for a while, then trying a wire brush to get as much as
you can, then just running with it.

> Lastly I have a case stud (two above oil pump right next to big funky
> plug) that has stripped and the PO had put in a helicoil and now the
> helicoild has failed and the stud no longer tightens down.

Like Mark said, there are other brands of thread inserts that will stay
in there a little better.  Carrol Smith mentions Rosan and Keen-Sert
inserts in one of his books; he thinks the Rosans are better but also
says they are unobtainable, at least as of the early 1990s - the Keen-
Serts were easier to find.  Both of these are a cylinder with threads
on the inside and the outside.  The Rosan inserts have a lock ring that
goes between the cylinder and the casting; the Keen-Serts have little
"kees" that get tapped down between the insert and the casting, sort of
like a square key holding a pulley or gear to a shaft.

It appears that currently both Rosan and Keen-Sert inserts are put out
by Alcoa Fastening Systems.  Googling on both names does imply that it
might be easier to buy Keen-Serts if your last name isn't Boeing or
Airbus.

Keensert http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/products/product.asp?prod_id=473
Rosan    http://www.alcoa.com/global/en/products/product.asp?prod_id=480

Idea: If the "usual suspects" of auto parts stores and auto machine
shops plead clueless to anything other than Helicoils, there is another
set of people that repair air-cooled horizontally-opposed engines every
day and who have access to all kinds of nifty hardware.  It may not be
cheap, but they have it.  By Federal law, nearly all such places
advertise in the same way, at least at night: look for the rotating
green and white light.  Look around a little and you may be able to
find someone who can help.  IMPORTANT: If you suddenly find yourself
driving down a street with blue lights down each side, you should
calmly turn around and go back the way you came.  If there are any
other color lights down each side, GET OFF THE STREET IMMEDIATELY, like
by driving between the lights into the grass.  Park there and several
people will be there shortly to help you out.

> I'm trying to get this old 67 H case ready for a cross country trip
> (NC to San Dog) and want it as good as it gets.

There's nothing illegal about tearing down the engine and putting it
back together with the same parts.  This also makes your cleaning task
easier, in that you don't have to worry so much about stray cleaning
goop in the engine.  If you do this, be extra careful to make sure all
the parts go back in *exactly* the same places.  Like, don't just have
a pair of bolts labeled "#2 connecting rod"; have one bolt labeled "#2
conrod top" and another labeled "#2 conrod bottom".  You may well find
that everything is in good shape for your trip; if you find otherwise,
at least you found it in your driveway instead of in East Bug Tussle,
Oklahoma.

Matt Roberds
