Date: Wed, 26 Apr 2006 10:42:14 -0400 (EDT)
From: chrhobbs(-at-)mindspring.com
To: Claude Lapierre <ciw165(-at-)globetrotter.net>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Bug out 59

Claude--

Until recently I lived a 45 minute drive from the Bug Out and went to at least 5 of them over the last few years.  The event is only on Sunday.  One of the local sponsors in Manassas might have an open house at his small resto shop the Saturday afternoon before.  The show cars on Sunday will be both watercooled and aircooled.  The aircooled cars are primarily Beetles and there will be many, many of those--more than you can appreciate.  Don't expect to see many buses.  Most of the perhaps dozen or so buses that came were usually baywindows, and most of those were campers.  The split window buses I could usually count on the fingers of one hand, although in a good year there might be 6, with 3 of them doublecabs including mine.  The same count for Things and Type 3s and Ghias--usually around a dozen each.

Compare the Bug Out to a split window bus show that I attended in Tampa Florida last November--there were over 100 split buses of all conditions and types (I counted them).  I thought I had died and gone to heaven!

The Bug Out features drag racing.  The show site is somewhat small and the facilities at the drag strip location are very run down.  So be prepared for it to be very noisy and crowded and hot all day.  Bring sunscreen and a cooler.  Parking is a couple of blocks away across a major highway.  Vendors (and some show cars) usually start packing up around 230pm to beat the rush out of the one exit.  Trophies are awarded around 4pm.

Make no mistake, this is one of the major VW shows for the mid-Atlantic US region.

My two cents worth, if I could make only one trip to the eastern US for a VW show, the VW Super Jam near Reading Pennsylvania on June 11 (only 2 weeks later) is far superior--more and better parts vendors, more cars to see, a superior show site (also a drag strip but at least an NHRA sanctioned one so it is maintained better).  Only drawback is the show site is out in the country and not well marked so it can be hard to find the first time.

            Chris Hobbs
            Oviedo Florida
             1967 Type 2 doublecab
             1979 Beetle convertible
             1974 412 wagon

-----Original Message-----
>From: Claude Lapierre <ciw165(-at-)globetrotter.net>
>Sent: Apr 25, 2006 9:20 PM
>To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
>Subject: [VB] Bug out 59
>
>Question about the bug out at Manassas. Is there something the saturday or it is a Sunday affair only?
>Is there is a large variety of car there (split busses and old bugs)
>I want to plan our trip there and do not want to make a 12 drive and miss something.
>Regards
>Claude
>Quebec Canada
