Date: Sat, 29 Apr 2006 18:45:00 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: craig <vwbus(-at-)ckoon.org>
Cc: VB list <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: strange offer - thoughts?

while cleaning the garage, a kid walks up, points to the ratty 70: 'how much?'
kids in the neighborhood always ask that; i tell em i have a good 
amount of money invested mechanically, but the body is crap, so make 
an offer.  they never do.

so this kid does. '$1200? i need a car bad; i had to lose the 
navigator, it was costing me $900/month.' hm. give me the night to 
think about it.  he gives me his number, and goes off.
now, i've got over 3K in the dumb*ss aluminum crapcase, 125 in the 
nos turn signal switch, 130 in a new tire to replace a road-damaged 
one, and a coupla hunnert in a tranny built by david crow. which i 
REALLY hate to give up. but shoot, the body is falling aparrt at the 
seams, and the kid says he works at a body shop so.......  i think 
about it.

to my surprise, he comes back in an hour, with uncle. they tire kick, 
listen to the motor, we take a test drive. i explain the bad parts 
and good. show him all the modifications. talk about how a vw isn't 
for everyone.  he and his uncle say they'll take it.

hmm. ok, i think. i guess i'll sell. wasn't done thinking about it, 
but they were!  my ONLY reason for selling is that we are moving to 
NYC, and i have to pay $500 to tow the bus to texas for storage 
anyways.  so fate decides for me, right?

then it gets weird.  uncle wants to go to a bank to get it notarized 
RIGHT NOW. um, saturday, 6 pm. not gonna happen. plus, i have 
personal items to get out - come back tomorrow.  ok he says. so then 
the kid asks 'how much did we agree on?'  1200.  'would you take 
$400?' the roof rack is worth almost that much, so no.  'how about 
eight?'  i'll think about. see you tomorrow.

so now i'm not sure what to do. i'm sure if the kid is legit, 1K 
could be settled on. prolly about what the bus is worth. but the 
whole thing seemed kinda odd. do people normally drive around 
neighborhoods looking for a car to buy RIGHT NOW?

thoughts?  beyond ACCEPT CASH ONLY, of course.
-- 
Craig K
70 Neunsitzer
65 Pritschenwagen
"If Von Dutch was alive, he'd walk in there with a pistol and shoot 
these people."
-Robert Williams
