Date: Wed, 08 Oct 2003 10:34:14 -0700
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] Carb Replacement

At 09:00 AM 10/08/2003, you wrote:
>  I
>believe that it is recommended that you use a 009 distributor with these
>carbs. It says this on the CBperformance website. I have heard from one list
>member, that has this setup, and says that the 009 works great with these
>new style "stock" carbs.

It wouldn't surprise me if CB Performance is re-curving the 009's for the 
T-IV engine. Weights and springs can be modified to do this. The stock 009 
range of 25 degrees is wonderful for the T-I motors. But it must be 
modified to give 15 or so more degrees of advance and smoothly through the 
range if it is to provide something near the best efficientcy that the 
stock vacuum response dizzy will give with stock carbs.


>I have heard so many bad stories about
>this distributor, but all I see for sale is this distributor? Do they not
>produce enough vacuum to use the old distributor?

Standard 009 25 degree advance will not match the T-IV needs. 009 modified 
to T-IV curve and range will be just great as a compromise. Stock vacuum 
dizzy will respond perfectly to stock carbs if jetted stock for capacity, 
give faster retard upon shutting the throttle protecting against 
pre-ignition, and follow more closely a smooth timing rate best matched to 
the engine design. The 009 is a great little R&D platform for racing types 
because with springs and files, you can create a custom curve to match a 
specific custom motor build.


>"Buy the duel Solex 34 pdsit's from CB Performance. You will like them much
>better then the Webers and they have chokes and a vaccum port for the dizzy.

And as someone pointed out earlier, they are as close to stock for 72 to 74 
T-IV engines as anything readily available. Beware, however, that jets and 
such must be sized properly for your motor. My impression is that CB 
Performance knows this and will jet them properly for a 1700 or 1800 or 
2000 cc. If they say they come with universal adjustability for 1700-2000, 
well, do measure exhaust gas to determine adjustability.  Then buy jets. 
Some vendors do send out assortments of jets upon deposit so you can do 
your testing, select your jets, and send back the assortment for refund of 
deposit, less the jets you keep. Ask CB about that.

I know CB had all good answers and provided all jets and emulsion tubes and 
gasket set for me to dial in the Webber Progressive for T-IV's. If they are 
putting together tuned packages of dizzies and carbs to fit spec dual carb 
T-IV applications, hurray, pay their price cause it's worth it as it will 
save you a whole lot of time/money. If you get generic one size fits all 
jets and a 25 degree 009, well, you are likely 2 modifications away from 
good results. Re-jet and re-curve to fit adds lots of time/money. 
