Date: Mon, 16 Jun 2008 19:27:50 -0600
From: DurocShark <durocshark(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "Ben Munday" <ben(-at-)benmunday.net>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] fan (rear) seal

On Mon, Jun 16, 2008 at 5:40 PM, Ben Munday <ben(-at-)benmunday.net> wrote:
> Do you mean I can apply sealant to the seal and reposition in place, without
> removal?
> And 'oil galley plugs'.. ? I'll have to look those up.

No. Slopping goop on the outside of the seal will do nothing good. You
have to remove it again. Popcicle sticks work good here to minimize
any damage.

The seal is cheap enough though that putting another new one in is
worthwhile rather than risk damage from pulling it again and
replacing.

As for replacing the seal. You need to remove the piece of tin
directly under the fan, loosen the alternator and remove the belt,
then remove the fan itself. From there remove the plate that the fan
bolts to (a press fit that requires a puller to remove properly) and
then you see the seal. A dental hook will make quick work of the old
seal. Clean the hole the seal was in, making sure there is no goop
anywhere. Also make sure you don't nick the surfaces in there. They
should be clean and smooth.

Rub some clean motor oil in the hole and on the new seal and press it
in. As mentioned, a big socket is fine for this. Or a piece of wood
with a hole bored in it to clear the shaft. Whatever you do, you need
to press the seal in straight. If it goes crooked you may have ruined
the seal.

No goop should be required if the hole surfaces are undamaged and the
seal is pressed in correctly. I haven't needed goop yet and done it a
few times now on different engines.

It really sounds harder than it is. I did mine in about 20 minutes on
the Guac recently.

Oh, and galley plugs are just like "freeze plugs" on water cooled
cars. But smaller. There are a few scattered around your case. Best
fix is to tap the hole and put a bolt in. Best done with the engine
out I would think, but I haven't done one myself.

-- 
Don
-----
