Date: Wed, 18 Jun 2008 13:25:17 -0400
From: "Eddie Goodwin" <eddiegood(-at-)gmail.com>
To: "bus list" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Trip Report/Tom Petty weekend (long)

Heres my trip report from last weekend. My fianci, her brother and I
planned a camping/Tom Petty weekend to see two concerts, in Boston and
Mansfield, MA. I put this on my blog and thought I would include it
here. Please comment!

I got out of work early on Friday. We packed the bus full of camping
gear and departed from our house in West Dennis, MA around 4:15pm with
just under a full  tank of gas. We stopped in Plymouth around 5:00pm
to get lunch. Oil check: still in the middle of the two lines as it
was when we left. Dipstick was cool to the touch. We cruised at 55mph
under 4000rpm for the 45 miles. Oil pressure was around 4 BAR for
first 10 miles, 2.5 bar for the rest.  hot day 85F. Departed Plymouth
at 6:30pm, hit some traffic on 93N in Boston, arrived at TD Banknorth
Garden at 7:45pm after another 55 miles. Dipstick was warm.

Great Petty concert!

12:50am depart Boston, major traffic on 93S due to construction..
traveled about 2 miles in an hour. Oil pressure hovering around 1 BAR
at idle during traffic. ~3 bar while cruising at 60mph. Arrived in
Foxboro campground at 2:15am. Dipstick very warm.

The campground was Normandy Farms in Foxboro, MA. This place is more
of a resort than a campground. It led to one of the best camping
weekends I've ever had. We had a spot in the field, which they called
the Safari section. I was a little disappointed we didn't get a spot
in the woods, but it turned out to be the best place we could have
been. This campground has very clean, modern bathrooms better than
what you'd find anywhere else. There are 3 pools, playgrounds, all the
usual camping activities and a mess hall where the three of us paid a
total of $4 for a nice pancake breakfast. When I booked this site I
thought it was really expensive for a campsite, but after experiencing
everything they had it was a steal. The rangers were very friendly,
especially for 2:15am, they directed us to the site.... we popped the
top and hunkered down for the night.

After a day of great fun we departed the campground around 3:30pm,
stopped at the supermarket for ice and food. It was a really hot day,
probably around 90F. We then proceeded down route 495S and traffic
started at the exit. They apparently decided to change the gate
opening time to 4:30 without telling anyone. We were in that traffic
for about an hour. While idling, oil pressure dropped to about .5 BAR
at one point and the Oil idiot light flashed for a split second. I
rev'd the engine and then pressure sat around .7 BAR at idle and we
finally started moving. After many words of encouragement to the bus
we made it to the parking lot. Oil dipstick was very hot. I could keep
my hand on it though, so I figured we were good. Oil level was just
above the lower line. She does like to drip oil after/while running
hot.

This Petty concert was at the newly renamed Comcast Center. I don't
know if it was under new ownership or what, but something about this
place other than the name had changed. The crowd was just a bunch of
reckless drunk college kids who were obviously there to party and
could care less about who was playing. We did our routine, playing
some music, cooked up a nice meal on the grill, and had our own fun.
Many people made comments about the bus that I've never got before, as
if they'd never seen one before. I was even asked if I lived in it. By
the time the show started the parking lot was so littered with cans,
glass and trash that it was impassable by car, and difficult on foot.
I've never seen anything like it and I go there for concerts all the
time it was really depressing. We weren't felling the vibe in the
concert either. We couldn't hear the music at all and we were in the
general admission section behind two rows of fences where drunk girls
were sitting , facing the opposite direction of the stage and blocking
any view. So we disappointedly decided to leave early. The concert
was drastically overbooked and that took away from the show.

We had about a quarter of a tank of gas left so we decided to stop and
get a quart of oil while before getting back on the highway.  Filled
up gas and oil and hit the road. We made it back to the campground
just after midnight, just as it started to rain.

I slept like a rock in the upper bunk that night and it was still
drizzling when I woke. Not really knowing what to do we drove down to
the campground store to get some milk for breakfast, where I found a
neat little toy bus, of course I had to buy it. We decided to stay and
wait out the rain. Back at the campsite we setup shop in the bus,
making room to fold out the table so we could sit and eat breakfast
and  play UNO, a new camping tradition. We did that for a few hours
before the rain cleared. That gave us the chance to cook the rest of
our food and play some wiffleball. Around 2pm we packed up and hit the
road.

There was light rain most of the trip home. We cruised at
60mph/4000rpm most of the 80 mile trip home and oil pressure stayed
consistently right above 4 BAR. When I got home the oil dipstick was
cool to the touch, oil level was still at the top line. At one point a
red water-cooled vanagon passed us on route 495, beeping hello. It
always makes me smile when I see another bus fan on the road. Is that
anyone on the list?

This was my first camping trip in the bus in a long time and totally
reminded me how much fun it is and how important it is to make the
time to do these things. We have tickets to lots more shows this
summer so hopefully we'll get to do it a few more times.

Summary: Bus ran great overall, lots of power (for a bus). I tried to
keep it under 4000rpm according to the tach, which I think reads a
little high. That kept me in the 55-60mph range. I installed new
Hankook RA08 tires on the front and Boge rear shocks just before the
trip. These tires make a remarkable improvement in handling over the
underrated cooper tires that I had on there. (they were only a
temporary solution until I could afford the Hankooks). I would
strongly recommend these tires if you are in the market for some. The
rear shocks seem a lot stiffer than whatever ones were on there
before, highway bumps were a little jarring. I have German Boges on
the front and they seem to be more forgiving (and a lot more heavy
duty) than the standard Boges that I just put on the rear.

Gas mileage: Total Trip 235 miles. ~16 gallons of gas.  For an average
of 14.7mpg. I was expecting/hoping to do a little better I think
dirty injectors may be hindering mpg a bit, not to mention all the
traffic we ran into.

Bus info: Orange and white '74 Westy *fully* loaded for this trip with
3 adults. 2000cc fuel injected Boston Bob rebuild with about 60K miles
and 002 tranny. no thermostat, flaps open (yes i know)... I use the
two prong VDO oil pressure sender and a generic tach for readings.


Eddie Goodwin
'74 Westy
'63 Sundial
