Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 09:20:08 -0500
To: Snoopy <vwsnoopy(-at-)fullmoonbusclub.net>,
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] ISO late model head stud filler

At 07:43 AM 9/19/2002, Snoopy wrote:
>I just built a 2L engine and the (used) heads have an extra hole on either 
>side of the manifold.  I was told these holes were from emissions or FI 
>related equipment.  Which I am not running.  Sooo I have 2 extra holes on 
>either side of the engine.  I have one of the bolts that go thru and they 
>had crimped the tube coming off of it.  I am in search of at least 3 
>more.  If anyone knows of an acceptable substitute easily obtainable at 
>the local hardware store I'm all ears.

You have 1973 heads, or possibly a mixture of '73 and '74 heads.  Hopefully 
you verified that the valves are the same size as they did differ between 
the two years.  Hopefully the combustion chambers are also the same size 
and shape.

Now on to the holes - they are air-injection ports that were indeed used 
for emissions, but only on carburated engines in '73-'74.  This problem has 
come up for myself and for others on the list in the past.  My solution was 
to buy some M10 bolts at the hardware store and loctite them in.  Use the 
one crimped tube you do have as a guide for the length.  These bolts should 
be available at any good hardware store (i.e. Ace, True Value, NOT Home 
Depot/Lowes).  You may have to buy bolts that are slightly longer and 
either cut them down or put washers under the head.  I would use washers, 
with at least one being a lock washer.  Between loctite and lock washers, 
they should stay in as long as the threads are good.  Unfortunately, many 
times the threads are NOT good in which case you are in a bit more 
trouble.  My solution to this subsequent problem was to find some 
SAE-thread bolts with a slightly larger diameter and self-thread them in 
(with the aforementioned loctite) and then start looking for new heads.  I 
wish you luck,

-David

