Date: Thu, 19 Sep 2002 13:17:12 -0400
From: Benoit Huot <huotx(-at-)videotron.ca>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Probable cause (carb)

Thanks to everyone for you support and knowledge, I do appreciate a lot.

Like I said before I have a sudden bucking, smoking and puffing problem.
I cannot drive the van without having some misfire in the back and she
smell gasoline like hell (timing was done yesterday, coincidence!!!) .
All that happens after I tried to adjust the mixture screw for both
carbs (the one that control the mixture for both carbs). The screw was
somewhat stuck, when she came loose (was very loose) I couldn't adjust
the mixture anymore, even if I put the screw to it's original position
(2 turn out)

Well, for those who have dual Solex (32-34) and ever opened or cleaned
those, maybe you help a bit more.

If you look and/or disassemble the left carb, there is a mixture screw
for both carbs on this one; it is the small one located beside the idle
screw. If you follow this one in line inside the carb you will see that
a small brass/copper tube of about 4cm (2in) / 5mm diameter is a
continuity of the mixture screw, this small tube as a very fine hole at
the end of this one that goes to the bottom beside the float (step 5.4
in the Bentley, I think!) (the small hole is like a JET), if you spay a
carb cleaner trough the fuel mixture hole (screw remove) you will see
the spay coming out of the small hole at the end of the tube like a fine
spay!!!! Well, here the catch, this tube is crack on almost it's full
length, that mean that the spay is poring out on the side of this one
like a flat spray!!!!!!!!
I can deduct that the small hole as a "debit control" function, but now
with the tube crack I think that the mixture screw function as no
function / meaning anymore (to rich all the time).

What I am trying to say is that there is a pressure inside that tube
controlled by the mixing screw, if there is a hole in the tube, the
screw doesn't do the job anymore.

Any comments or am too deep in carburator stuff!!!

Regards to you all, Ben

ps.: timing: 50deg DWELL, 7.5BTDC (no retard vacuum) at idle.

