Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2004 01:28:18 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: TRIP REPORT: Sequoia National Park

>From: "Billy" <wfp3(-at-)lycos.com>
>Date: Tue, 25 May 2004 18:25:28 -0400
>
>Lighting:  suddently lost driver side head and tail lights.  Sounds like
>the 9-pin unit to me, what else could cause front/rear loss on one side?
>Switch?

The 9-prong box is also responsible for soft tire sidewalls, sloppy
shifters, oil leaks, and bad breath.  :)  Seriously - the 9 prong box
only cares about your turn signals and hazard flashers.  Anything to do
with the headlights or taillights is elsewhere.

The first place I'd look would be in the fuse box.  The headlight and
tail light wires come into the fuse box as one wire each, and go out
as two wires each, one for each side.  There are separate fuses for
front and rear, so it's a little weird to lose both at once, but
possible.  You may also want to make sure that the plastic frame of
the fuse box isn't cracked, and that the brass fuse clips/terminals
are reasonably tight in the box and to each other.

The switch isn't the first suspect, because if the right side lights
are working front and back, then juice is at least getting through
the switch and to the fuse box.

Maybe you just got lucky and burned out a couple of bulbs at once?
The rear bulb can be checked by inspection but that's harder to do
for the sealed beams up front.  One simple thing is to swap them
left to right and see if the darkness changes sides (you have a bad
bulb) or stays on the same side (bad fuse or wire from fuse box to
headlight bucket).  Or, if you have an ohm-meter, unplug the suspect
bulb and check all three permutations of the two meter leads and
three bulb terminals.  You should have a few ohms resistance in all
3 permutations - if two of them measure infinite ohms, you have a
burnt-out bulb.

If you've got the headlight apart, check the brown ground wire that
screws to the inside of the headlight bucket.  Make sure the end
isn't crusty and the screw is tight.  In back, the stock reflectors
are known to get flaky grounds; try holding a piece of wire between
the outside metal tube of the bulb holder and the engine case.  If
this makes the rear light work, you have a bad ground at that light.

I hope this helps!

Matt Roberds
(now catching up on list mail after a couple of weeks out of town)
