Date: Sat, 5 Jun 2004 00:50:33 -0700 (PDT)
From: Cal Grant <cjay(-at-)well.com>
To: "Thomas J. Tarka" <tommy(-at-)slackers.net>
Subject: Re: [VB] engine question

On Fri, 4 Jun 2004, Thomas J. Tarka wrote:

> just checked.  it says a "full minute".

Wow! wonder if I can take the racket that long! :-)

> it also says that:
>  a) a broken ring will make the same sound, except constantly
> 	(which sounds like it could be your problem?)

No, don't think it's a ring problem, as the compression is real good with
no leakdown.

>  b) that loose heads will make a louder pounding sound (although this
>         hasn't been the case in my experience)

It could be a loose head - this rebuild hasn't held its head torque as
well as I'd like. Every time I've checked, it's been a bit loose, not
really loose, but just slightly. So that could mean studs pulling out. But
they're in there nicely, as of last check last year.

> (sorry to regurgitate Muir, but it seemed like it might have some use)

It's okay to quote Muir, he started this whole thing of people actually
keeping their VW's alive forever. If it wasn't for his book, back in 73, I
wouldn't have bought a bus.

> good call.  before you pull the heads though, you might try torquing them
> to spec to see if any are completely loose.  "Why not?"

Yup, something I will do, but I'd keep going unless they are really loose.
Then, I'd have to try and find out why. The case has the modern
case-savers, and the 8mm studs, so it's a simple setup, no mysteries.

> perhaps. but if everything else is w/i spec (bearings, endplay, heads,
> compression) then you don't necessarily need to waste a good case.

Sometimes I think that, but when I read Gene Berg articles about cases, he
says throw them away. If you're putting the time and money into a engine
build, why start with an old case that could be fatigued, etc. I tend to
agree - engine builds are stressful, messy, and costly. I believe you pay
up front, or more later.

Thanks for the good ideas and response! It's always good to keep the ol'
brain exercised, so you don't miss something important or obvious, or
subtle.

Time for bed!

cal
