Date: Tue, 12 Aug 2003 10:55:56 -0500
To: <bdipert(-at-)pacbell.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: David Schwarze <schwarze(-at-)mail.ev1.net>
Subject: Re: [T2] Advice requested....'81 AdventureWagen

At 07:12 AM 8/12/2003, Brian Dipert wrote:
>everything else appears to be fully functional. Our neighbor is asking
>$4,000; I'm wondering if this is a reasonable price, and if not what you'd
>recommend we offer.

I think it's a reasonable price for that vehicle.  If I really wanted it (well, I DO really want it but I already have a similar camper!) I would try to negotiate a slightly lower price based on the few flaws that is has... say $3600 or so.  Most people build in a little flexibility to their price so I think there is a good chance you could get it for that.  If you did, you would be getting a very nice rig for a great price, IMO.

>In searching for someone to inspect it, I got some disturbing feedback
>yesterday morning from Frank's Automotive, a local foreign vehicle repair
>shop. The manager pretty strongly warned me against purchasing an '81 model,
>due to its aircooled, underpowered nature.
<snip>

Well yes, there is that.  It is underpowered, but so are all of the rest of them including the '86-up models that he seems to like.  The 83.5-up watercooled models have their own set of problems, in particular a tendancy to erode head gaskets, leading to major engine repairs.  Since thet engine in the '81 was recently rebuilt (assuming a reputable rebuilder) you should have plenty of trouble-free miles with it as long as you know its limitations.

I had a friend once that had a '77 bus and about four kids.  She moved from somewhere back East to California and loaded the bus down, then rented a large U-Haul trailer to tow behind it and loaded THAT down, and proceeded to drive it across the country in the summertime.  The poor bus died somewhere in Arizona and she sold it on the spot.  She was expressing her distate for VW busses to me one day along with this story and all I could manage was a small smile when I really wanted to scream, "HELLO???? ANYONE HOME?  YOU DROVE THE THING INTO THE GROUND!".  :-)

My point is that you will need to take it easy with the '81 Adventurewagen.  The highroof and all of those heavy wood cabinets will take their toll if you insist on keeping your foot to the floor.  If you drive it gently however, it will last, return relatively good gas mileage and get you to and from many wonderful camping trips.

>Thoughts? And while I'm at it, one other thing I'm wondering about....due
>both to the vehicle's height, its underpoweredness and its high center of
>gravity, how scary is it to drive in a crosswind? 

Keep both hands on the wheel.  :)  Not a showstopper, at least not for me.

-David
