Date: Thu, 27 Jun 2002 10:24:24 -0500
From: Chris Mills <scm9985(-at-)tntech.edu>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Masters of Swappage Needed


>Well, friends, I went to look at the 77 bus this evening. The owner didn't
>lie, it IS nearly rust free. Some surface rust on the floors but nothing
>serious. The body, including doglegs, wheel wells, and areas under the
>windows appear to be free of rust. Even the battery trays look good.

Check right behind the front wheels. Mine had a thick layer of undercoating 
that helped the rust along. I'll have to replace a tiny panel there. Also 
my front seat belt mounts (and rear has started) have some rust between the 
sheet metal of the body and the little reinforcing plates in the fenderwells.

>The
>transmission is gone, baby, including the drive shafts, clutch cable, and
>CVs. The interior is stripped except for the front seats, both of which are
>in poor condition. It has been repainted a dark green but appears to have
>been some funky shade of blue originally.
>
>The engine.....what can I say? It's sitting on the floor and appears to be
>complete, including the FI stuff. Comes with a new clutch disc and pressure
>plate. All the tin is intact and looks to be in good condition. The owner
>says he has 'heard it run' but never driven it so I don't actually know much
>about it. I saw one thng that bothered me....the dreaded TRIANGULAR EXHAUST
>FLANGES!! Isn't this the one year only, NLA, never to be found again on this
>planet exhaust system? On the bright side, doesn't another system
>interchange with this one? ( I know there have been posts about this but I
>never paid attention.)


Expect the worst out of the engine. If he is trying to take your money 
he'll tell you all about how wonderful it was. Or maybe he knows nothing 
about the engine and bad noises are bad to him. Either way it will be a 
pleasant surprise when you find out it is solid. The exhaust is no big 
deal. You can swap 29 items and have the 72-74 style heaters and exhaust 
but I would stick with the late bay version if you can - why spend the 
money to dump something that works. Just replace the gaskets if need be. By 
the way certainly Nissan products have exhaust gaskets that will work - or 
at least have worked for me. Available from most FLAPS and usually in 
stock. Take a pipe with you for fitting the gasket. It is not an exact fit 
but it works.

You can get a tranny from junkyards in your area or from a list member. Any 
of the list parts suppliers can supply you with a rebuilt tranny.

I don't know what your expectations are for this vehicle but with the 
interior gone you will have alot of work ahead of you to locate an interior 
and retrofit it IF you are trying to build an original bus. Might be easier 
to buy a bus in better condition (more complete).

Of course you could build something custom and be very happy! This bus may 
be a very great start allowing you to start cheap and put money into it as 
you can afford and as you have time. We have had alot of fun looking for 
all the missing details for our Westfalia and making it something we are 
proud of.

The important part is that the rust is minimal!

Enjoy your new bus. Keep us updated.
Ciao!

Chris Mills
Cookeville, Tennessee
ICQ# 5944649

