From: "incynr8" <incynr8(-at-)lawngnome.org>
To: "'VintageBus'" <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Fri, 30 Aug 2002 15:45:22 -0400
Subject: Repair shop / engine builder in PA to avoid ....WARNING.....   LONG

Attn fellow bussers:

After almost a year of frustration, extended waiting for little to no
assistance, and finally ending in an engine in need of major repair
after only 1750 miles, I am taking the final steps, sucking it up and
fixing my beloved bus myself, and warning others to avoid more
suffering.

A brief summary for those just tuning in, and to refresh information for
those who know already: Skip to then end if you just want to know the
source of my frustration.

1) Purchased engine, specified the following:
A. German 1600 SP with German rebuilt carb, 8 doweled CW crank (settled
for cast), new heads, all German tin, turnkey, broken in, tested. Was to
have stock cam, new not reground, new lifters, on a dual relief German
case (not new) and doghouse cooling. Cost 1700 plus core. My core engine
was not to be used. It had bad busma.

2) After 12 weeks of build time, and a dropped off core, I traveled four
hours west again to pick up engine. It was not finished or run in. I had
to paint grimy tin with krylon and assist in assembly to get home, I was
to get a new/rebuilt generator, but wound up with junkyard one,after he
foolishly ordered a 38A for a split, without acquiring the tin first.
Tin under heads between jugs, missing....Triangle pieces.
Should have walked away then, but I was trusting, and needed an engine
for my bus, after MONTHS of waiting and rebuilding her suspension,
installing trans. I bought the tran there on my first trip, 250 for one
that was supposed to work. So rusty the case had to be discarded and
entire unit rebuilt, but I expected that.

3) Installed engine, finally figured out the Brazilian fuel pump had
reverse outlets. OK. Then carb flooded constantly. He DID send a new
carb after three weeks (it was soaking, he said), that flooded to.
Bentley told me to check needle valve shim, his was speced for 34 pict
3, and half the thickness I needed. I repaired the carb myself and broke
in my engine. After setting all the unlashed valves that is, and
emptying the oil after many hydro locks.

4) Tested compression for the hell of it after noticing oil blowing from
oil filler (incorrectly positioned 180 out, and no drip tube) Pass side
head readings 150 psi/150psi . Drivers 125 psi/125 psi. Called about
imbalance, asked about spec sheet for deck heights, got nothing for an
answer.

5) 250 miles, valve spring #3 breaks. He says 'whadja do?" when I call.
I said "Shifted from 3rd to 4th at 35" Listee assistance allowed me to
change this in situ. The lash AFTER reattaching the rocker assemblies
WAS STILL PERFECT. Not my fault. Another oil change and metal cleanup.

6) Continually difficult to tune due to 100 and imbalanced compression.
Complained on two more occasions, told him I wanted new heads. Responds
finally saying I could have them, never sent. This was last May. Still
no requested specs.

7) The first long trip in the bus, a July4th trip to central north PA, 3
hours, some mountain driving. Nothing like out west. Moderately loaded
with 240lbs of canines, and under 300lbs of passangers, about 150lbs of
camping gear (maybe less, I'm a minimist camper). Tight valves on pass
head 3/4 way there. Let her cool, relash next morning in the dirt. 1 and
2 are interference tight. This was my 6th valve adjustment since new,and
less than 1000 miles.

8) Do not drive rest of camping week, drive home. Limp home with tight
valves on rt 54 through PA. Sounded like shit by the time he hobbled
home. Same valves tight... WTF? Wait a day, set them again.... Another
call.....Still no heads....No offer for help.

9) She hold up ok a while. No major drives, just to and from work on
nice days. 12-25 miles a day, in 2-4 15 minute drive, everything seems
fine.

10) a Sunday drive, snake up the Blue MTN....Pulling a small hill at
30-32mph in 3rd. All of a sudden....NO POWER....I know my valves
tightened again...Limp home...That's it. I write him an email demanding
new heads or money (AND THAT THEN AND ONLY THEN I WILL RETURN THE BAD
HEADS), or that I would tell other and then sue him. He flips out on me,
says he both won't and will send them
And that I must send the heads in first. I will not do that, because I
will have even less, and no evidence.
I get to shortly find out if the deck heights even matchup, head ccs and
stretching valves might not be my only problem.

Here's his email, annotated in the less obnoxious case.


I CAN NOT BELIEVE YOU SENT ME SUCH A NASTY THREATING (I guess legal
recourse is a threat to him) BULLSHIT LETTER,I COULD SAY A LOT OF
THINGS,BUT I AM GOING TO KEEP MY COOL, BOX UP YOUR HEADS AND SHIP THEM
BACK (where? To me?, to his supplier?),I HAVE A BRAND NEW PAIR HERE
SITTING ON THE BENCH(the same ones getting shipped back?),WHEN I GET
YOUR HEADS BACK(mine? From my motor, or the ones you are BOTH returning
AND sending?) ,I WILL SHIP YOUR NEW HEADS RIGHT OUT,AND PLEASE PLEASE DO
US BOTH A FAVOR,DONT EVER CALL ME AGAIN (why even bother? I never get
anything) ,AND IF YOUR FRIENDS ARE LIKE YOU (I guess so, I assume all of
you demand quailty and resolution of problems, which can occur),DONT
REFER ANY OF THEM  TO ME (no problem! :) ),I DO NOT WANT ANY MORE
CONTACT WITH YOU WHAT SO EVER, IF YOU DO THE DEAL IS OFF (what deal? The
2 grand you got and the shit I got? OK!) AND I
WILL SEE YOU IN COURT,                      PS.CALL UP YOUR ENGINE
BUILDERS AND SEE HOW MANY CC STOCK 1500 SINGLE PORT HEADS,ON A MOTOR
JOB.

Many of you answered the above PS, and I found quite a few, although
some had a good response saying that it is not required on one case, if
they are known NEW, then not required for stock engine, but messing
around with used unknown mystery stuff, definitely.

And finally his signature file to reveal the beast to all:

VW  Bob
Bob's Auto Salvage Online <--Also doing business as East Coast
Motorworks.
http://www.vwbob.com <---The 21 window roof is supposedly sold, I
referred a few of you here for split parts, and you all mentioned
19449 Rt 322			about how he treated you rudely and/or
unhelpfully.
Strattanville, PA 16258
(814) 764-5263

Thanks for lending an ear and eye, and good advice. I will post info
when we spec this engine out, and attempt to save her, thanks to
Ronnie's good parts coming soon... A good weekend and safe driving to
you all.




