From: Claralw(-at-)aol.com
Date: Mon, 2 Sep 2002 13:51:53 EDT
To: bigdog(-at-)yournet.com, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] safaris CE -Izzys

--part1_15a.136872d7.2aa4ff39_boundary
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="US-ASCII"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit

Hi,

FWIW, you do not have to break the glass when removing it.   Use a sharp 
knife, a razor blade knife works great.  Cut right next to the glass, 
parralell to the glass, so the tip of the knift goes against he lip of 
themetal of the bus.  Then you can peel off the outer edge of the seal.  Then 
us ethe knift to cut right next to the glass at a 90* angle to the glass- 
between the glass and the seal to unstick the glass from the seal.  Have a 
friend on the outside so the glass doesn't fall out, and from the inside pull 
he old seal away from the center of the glass to break the suction loose.  
pull it in one place to the inside.   the glass should come out.  I have done 
this many times and never broken a windsheild.  If you try to pop the glass 
out with the seal intact on it you are almost guaranteed to break the 
windsheild.

Safaris always leak, even originals, though it's said they leak less.

Get new glass cut and install it in your bus.

I have heard similar stories about Izzie's.  Did you ask for your money back 
and give back the bad set?

Dunno your climate, but I live in rainy WA and my 61 came with original 
safaris.   When I got NOS seals they barely dripped, but that was years ago.  
I take them out on winter and put regulars in, put the safaris back in in 
summer.


In a message dated 9/2/02 9:03:18 AM Pacific Daylight Time, 
bigdog(-at-)yournet.com writes:


> I called Izzy & he told me how he was having trouble with the design, he was
> getting some new dies made, I would get the FIRST set available. so, I'm
> here with no windshields cause they had to break the glass to get the old
> ones out. We went ahead and installed the set we had, knowing they would
> leak.
> 
> 



--part1_15a.136872d7.2aa4ff39_boundary--
