Date: Sat, 06 Oct 2001 12:36:59 -0700
To: "Everett Barnes" <everettb(-at-)thesamba.com>,<vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
From: Scott Mc Williams <webmaster(-at-)motifstudios.com>
Subject: Re: [VB] Questions from a Groovy Dude

At 07:28 AM 10/6/01 -0700, Everett Barnes wrote:
>Why do you "need" seatbelts?  State law? I know in CA, you don't have to
>have seat belts if the car did not originally come equipped with them.

You NEED seatbelts if you want to have a chance in hell of surviving an
accident. Yes, it's state law in California, just like the helmet law.
Seems we have a way of trying to protect those who are too stupid to
protect themselves here. I've heard all of the excuses for not wearing your
seatbelts; they hurt my hips/shoulder, they take too long to put on, I just
forget, they're only for bad drivers, etc. Then there's always the "my
aunt's friend's cousin was thrown out of her car when she careened off the
road...if she'd had her seatbelt on she would hav died. Yeah I'm sure that
happens...but not often enough to matter.

The fact is that in most major accidents, it's the guys in the seatbelts
that survive or have the best chance. It's not a guarantee...you can't put
one on and drive like Mad Max and expect to live everytime. But look at the
auto racers and their wrecks. Again...sometimes one dies like Dale
Earnhart, but 9 times out of 10, they just pry those good ol' boys out of
those accordians and they walk away.

Everyone who knows me knows I'm a pretty stock kiinda guy. BUT, the first
thing I did to my T34 is installed seat belts. When the 56 is on the road,
it'll have lap belts at least.

Sorry for the rant, but a very good friend just got killed on my birthday
last weekend. He and a buddy were in his buddies 2000 Corvette. It got out
of control on a windy road. His buddy walked away...he had his seatbelt on.
My friend was a great guy, but he always gave me excuses. I'll miss him on
his birthday this month, he would have been 38. He was a stubborn guy and
it cost him his life.

Drive safe...

Scott
