Date: Mon, 08 Oct 2001 08:12:08 -0700
From: Philip & Catherine <matchka(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: Vintage bus <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: leaking trans fluid - any ideas

On the road south from Washington (state) we stopped for groceries about
noon.  When we got back to the bus there was a small puddle (2 OZ?) of
fluid under the bus.  The soil was red and so we discounted any reddish
color and figured it was our old problem of the oil cooler seals leaking
under high pressure.  (55 PSI, summer oil 20w50).  Engine oil was low 
so we added 1 qt of oil and continued to check it.  We do not usually
loose or leak oil and the level was fine when we started driving in the
morning, so we assumed this was the engine oil on the ground.

Down the road we checked it at 5 miles and when we got to our
destination for the day about 20 miles down the road and there were no
more leaks and no more oil loss in the engine.  The bus sat for 3 days
and no leaks were seen.

Then we were down the road and about 100 miles later at a rest stop we
had another small puddle (about 2 oz again). As we sat there with the
engine off it stopped leaking.  We checked the engine and there was no
oil loss.  It was full.  On the asphalt the oil looked reddish and
smelled like tranny fluid.  

We drove another 100 miles plus and had no problems with tranny noise,
clutch was fine, no slippage, no unusual operation.  We arrived at
friends where we could inspect the problem.  There was transmission
fluid dripping from the starter motor interface to the bell housing. 
There were also some drips and dirtiness at the bottom of the bell
housing but there are 2000 miles on the bus since last cleaning and this
is the lowest point of the system.  Boots were clean and dry, no cracks
there apparently.  We added about 9 oz of GL-4.  Not much loss but we
had topped it off before we left on the trip - 2000 miles back and it
has not been checked since.  In the past we have had to put in 4 oz or
so for a 5000 mile trip. This leakage appears to come from the
transmission side covers and/or front shifter input shaft.

It did not leak when we pulled it into the garage or back on the
street.  It appears to only leak after 100 mile runs and when we have
warmed it up a little (210 degs).  Guess we will have to make shorter
cool weather trips to get home.

Any idea?

Has anyone drilled a small 1/4 in hole in the bell housing to see where
the leak comes from?  Tapped and plugged?  Can it be done with
everything in place?


TIA 
P & C
Cruisin in the 59 ddr w/t EZ camper leaky bus somewhere around Woodland,
CA
