From: "gil hayes" <gilhayes(-at-)midsouth.rr.com>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Aug 2003 15:10:28 -0500
Subject: Popping out of gear

Don't shoot the transmission yet.

Several things can cause the popping out problem not all are transmission
items in and of themselves. Maybe it's the linkage alignment or wear...

Shifting a bus is like turning off and on a three position lamp with a broom
from across the room. You transmission has a four foot long stick of metal
to push and pull it around.

Also, check the clutch cable and clutch adjustment. It could be that fourth
is not tight enough so that somehow the cable is semiengaged or not engaged
enough. A far fetched idea but worth checking out before dropping a
transmission.

First of all, the shift connector "stuff" under the shifter knob floorboard
can wear and over time lead to popping out problems.

It was a really common problem with the newer buses like from 84 on up. I
replaced a clutch and throwout bearing only to find that I couldn't shift
into anygear worth a damn. I figured, it was my first clutch, that I had
screwed up.

But, I found out that the nylon bushings used in the new shift connectors or
even the removal and reinstallation of the box could lead to problems of
poppout, etc. Sometimes a realinging of linkage can solve this. You may be a
little off center and not fully engaged or binding and pulling out or
vibrating out...thus the low speed problems.

Secondly, a clutch going out, which is cheaper than a transmission can lead
to this. Although it's usually starts with the first and second gears.

Try starting off slowing in second or first and see if it wants to pop out.
If it does, then chances are it is the clutch. See the "compete idiots guide
to vw..etc." for more on transmission popping out problems.

Thirdly, related to the clutch, the throw out bearing can become worn if
it's not replaced with the clutch and can cause a myraid of problems. It
could be that someone before you replaced the clutch but not the throwout
bearing. It's a shame, you do all that work for a clutch and then ignore a
$22 bearing and then have to do all that work to do it over again and have a
half worn out clutch...thus, you either buy another new clutch in half-the
time or replace the clutch later.

Finally, it's a heck of a lot cheaper and easter to just put in a rebuilt or
used transmision than it is to try to work on the dman things...sometimes it
just ain't worth it...

Just for curiosity's sake, I would try shifting without the clutch to see
what sort of kicks, grinds and pop outs you get.  IT's easy enough to do.
Start on a flat surface with the engine off and in first. Don't engage the
clutch but turn th starter and take off...at about the usual 15 to 25 pull
the bus out of gear..no clutch...and pull gently into 2nd., third and even
fourth are the same way....it's a good exercise for the day your clutch
really does go out..

IF it's not any of the above, buy some Go JO and start wrenching out those
axle boots.

Oh yes, be sure to secure the vechicle damn well before crawling underneath
to do any of the above. And you can get to all of these items without
jacking.

Lots of luck...
