Date: Tue, 5 Aug 2003 19:03:43 -0700 (PDT)
From: Bill Abbott <bill.abbott(-at-)teradyne.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: leaking sun roof

Susan's '77 transporter (or is that a 77' transporter!)
has a rusty sunroof and needs sealing. In the San Jose,
California area.

	I've had good experience at Anderson Behl Body Shop
out in Santa Clara. Not the cheapest but they were willing
to fix a couple of rust-outs in my 914 11 or 12 years ago
and did very well- as good at that as the usual colision 
repair, where I would rate them very good to excellent based
on several visits over the last 30 years.

	Note, they wouldn't paint a exterior color on the
OUTSIDE of the vehicle unless I was willing to pay for the
whole pannel to be painted- in my case a trunk lid. 
Their professional standards were that they either did the
whole pannel or not at all. No partials.

	 On the INSIDE of the trunk (rear) they matched and 
painted just the repaired area, ditto the inside of the 
trunk lid. But on the outside it was brown multi-part primer, 
which is waterproof, with a black sanding guide-mist over 
that. Unless I wanted to spend $$$ more.

	They WERE happy to do the primer and stop there, and
since its waterproof, I never took it any further. That
particular car was in a paint + clearcoat system and the
clearcoat was coming off, so there wasn't much point
in doing a pannel.

	Do note that its been a long time, since then. But they 
have been in business there for at least 30 years and do a 
lot of work

	When I needed our '70 single-cab to have dents in both
rear corners and a bashed bumper straightened out, I took it
to Performance Auto Body in Oakland, where I now live.
A lower-rent outfit than Anderson Behl, but they worked
hard for my money and got a very, very, good color match.
They're proud of their work and willing to work on old
cars. It took them longer and cost me more than they
originally bid by about 2 hours (about 10%) of cost.

	My brother's family had their Beetle's windows redone
by a shop that Bugformance in Sunnyvale recomended, but
I can't remember the name. Call Bugformance and see if they
are still recomending anyone!

	Happy Motoring

	Bill

'97 Son   '93 Corrado traded-in for '03 Passat    '70 Single Cab
