Date: 5 Aug 2003 22:46:04 -0500
From: "T. Neal" <wharfrat(-at-)spiritone.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Thought I Had Another Plugged Fuel Tank, But....

Hello All,
I have a 79 FI bus.  About 3 years ago I had a plugged fuel tank, and had to
have whatever the "clogger" was blown out of the fuel ports with compressed
air.  After that long of diligently keeping my tank above 1/2 full and
hoping for the best, this past weekend the same symptoms appeared:  me
trying to accelerate to the shift points of the various gears and then
having the acceleration just fall away under load -- as if the fuel was cut
off all of a sudden.  This happened upon my entrance to a freeway, on down
the road, and then back onto the freeway after a hike.  After aborting the
mission and turning the bus around and heading back into the city, it got us
there OK (60 miles) but the next morning I was dead in the water.  She
started and idled perfectly, but when I tried to accelerate in 1st gear the
RPMs would only get up so far before dropping away.  It took me 20 minutes
to go 2 blocks, turn the bus around, and come back.  I then had it towed to
my loyal German shop.  I was still convinced I had a clog in the tank.  When
I watched the back of the bus being hoisted onto the tow truck, I thought
that the angle of the bus might dislodge whatever it was blocking my fuel.
The next day, after a comprehensive look into the tank and an examination of
the now-unimpeded fuel flow out from the tank and then a lengthy test drive,
my shop guys could find nothing wrong; it ran fine.  This is frustrating.
Anyway, has anyone had this experience?  The guys at the shop said it could
very wll be a debris clog in the fuel tank, but they never saw anything
looking through the "float hole".  They also mentioned that other problems
could generate identical symptoms -- such as a fuel pump going bad or a bad
electrical relay to the pump or an FI problem.  I still think I have crap in
my tank, and still give credence to the "tow angle" theory.  Anyway, I can't
stand the thought of not being able to drive my bus anywhere for fear of
this happening again at any given time.  Anyone have any similar
experiences/cures who can suggest other problems to check and fix so that I
can hopefully drive with confidence again? Thanks!

Travis
79 Riviera
