From: "Andrea Berardelli" <doctorb(-at-)imag.net>
To: "Dave Wolfanger" <dwolf(-at-)bluefrognet.net>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 5 Aug 2003 23:19:07 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] I'm gonna pull my engine

Dave and all.

I stand corrected

Anyway.

I first took out the engine to do a major tune up and replace the clutch.  I
then drove the van for a few months but it was tired and I ended up having
to take it out again and do rebuild.  I also broke a 74 for parts.  And in
fact it is the 74 engine I rebuilt in the end, 1800 cc and bigger valves.

Main and rod bearing, small ends, new camshaft and followers,, cam bearings,
oil pump, valve adjusters, new valves, guides and seals, and all the other
standards things.  I had all moving parts balanced dynamically and
statically.  Plus I had the starter and the alternator rebuilt, and so
forth.

I did not make any modification to my engine, I do not have enough
experience to make novel suggestions to the group, at best I can relate my
own experience, a common one.

I am still using the two Solex carbs, but I did rebuild them including new
bushings on the throttle shafts.  They leaked air.

I went to a regulated electric fuel pump, under relay control.

I switched to Lumention Optronic ignition with dwell control.  I did retain
the original dizzy with vacuum and centrifugal  control.

I added a rev counter and a oil temp instrument.

I had never done a VW engine before although I have done 6 cyl. Porsche and
several 4, 6 and 8 cyl Italian twin cam engines.  Several British in various
configurations.  Many motorbikes, my first love.

I found the VW to be a very pretty and well executed piece of automotive
engineering.  The all van is nice, that transaxel would look good in  mid
fifties race car, just like a Porsche, or an ALFA.

I drive my van every day now,  I am not so sure about the winter yet.  But
we camp, go to the lake, seaside and generally enjoy it. It is a pop top and
I have a 3 way fridge I will some day install in it.

Like I said before, a motorhead ultimate dream.  A house with an engine, a
car  you can live in.

And no, I don't do this for a living, I could never, very little formal
training, just an amateur, with a long time passion for stuff with gears
inside.

Regards, Andrea
