From: tjaspers(-at-)ameripath.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 6 Aug 2003 07:42:52 -0400 
Subject: It's a saaad saaad day.... 

Well.... :(
 
    On the way home from work, I was cruising down the highway (I drive my 4
cyl GrandAm to work). I saw what looked like a VW Transporter. Sure enough..
it was a tow truck with a beat up Chevy Cavalier on the flatbed, and a
68??-72? Volkswagen Type-2 Transporter. It was one of the ones with the
oblong rear tail-lights and the rectangular turn signals above the
headlights. The car was painted brown, with a white top. The Bus seemed to
have rust in a LOT of places... like in the metal seams door jams.. etc.
 
Just curious if it belonged to anyone. 
 
In any case, it was going to the junkyard. I know this because he took the
441/SR-7 exit off of 5-95 (which is off of I-95). For those of you who live
in the Fort Lauderdale area probably know that M&L Auto Wrecking and
U-PULL-IT both are immediately off 5-95 on 441/SR-7. It is the "Exit Ramp"
of life for old cars....
 
Just seems sad to me how an older car like that can just be taken to the
junkyard to be crushed. I know it'll serve a lot of us some good in the
junkyard for parts... etc. It just seems ashame. I don't see very many
transporters. The same goes for Fieros and whatever other cars in the yard
that I see. This junkyard crushes some of the rarest cars I've ever seen.
Just a few of the cars I've seen them crush... Original LE 76-77 TransAms,
82 CFI TransAms, 63 Cadillac Brougnham Talisman DeVille, 77 Pontiac CanAm,
76-77 Grand Prix SJ(s), SS Monte Carlos, Fiat X-1/9 Bertone, Volvo P1800s
(the little two door sports cars from the late 60s??), Fiat 1800 roadsters,
Alpha Romeo Spyder Veloces, classic Porsches, BMWs, ALL kinds of
Volkswagens.. beetles, Kharmann Ghias... Things.. you name it. I once saw
them crush a rust free late 70s Masarati BiTurbo 2-seater convertible
because the head was warped.
 
Oh well.... 

Todd Jaspers - Programmer
AmeriPath IT - Fort Lauderdale
954-377-3291 

CONFIDENTIALITY NOTICE: This e-mail message, including any attachments, is
for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
and privileged information. Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient, please
contact the sender by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original
message.
