Date: Wed, 6 Aug 2003 10:57:14 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: RE: [T2] rebuild

> when we had to replace the exhaust every couple of years.  He didn't do
> anything magical to the bus or have any super secret treatment
> that he used to keep it running any better than any other bus on the road in
> the 70's.

How you drive has almost as much to do with the longevity of the bus/engine as
maintenance. I was made more than aware of this when I let my ex-wife drive my
bus. First, she couldn't even start it (worn ignition switch). Then, she
couldn't find reverse. Then she ground gears and gave it too much gas to
start. Then she tried to stop real fast (heh!). I told her to drive as though
everything is in slow motion.

What surprised me is that when I'm behind the wheel, the bus runs real smooth.
No grinding gears. Nice, clean acceleration (not blinding, but it gets there).
Competent braking - since I don't try to go as fast as the rest of traffic,
stopping is easier and I begin stopping sooner.

This comes from becoming more aware of the vehicle and not expecting it to do
things it can't (like zip in and out of traffic). My father always drove old
vehicles that only he could drive. His cars frequently need to be started by
shorting the start solenoid or spraying carb cleaner in the carb to prime it.
It not that the vehicle was in general disrepair - Dad just had a high
tolerance for the 'less important details' (kind of like my worn ignition
switch).

Oh yeah, a sure fire way to ruin a vehicle quickly is to let many people drive
it regularly - especially if it's a manual transmission. Some people shift too
fast and grind gears. Some people over rev. Some people lug. Some people run
the AC constantly. Some people run over railroad tracks and try to catch air.
Ever wonder why the car rental places pretty much only have automatics? It's
amazing what a computer controlled transmission can do to even out the wear on
an engine...

-Eric


-- 
www.bradway.net
