From: "Tom and Thanh" <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.com>
To: "Christopher Renz" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Wed, 6 Aug 2003 11:11:43 -0400
Subject: Re: [T2] vacuum advance

Did you line the wire for number 1 cylinder up with the rotor pointing to
TDC  on 1, and then ensure you've got 432 in clockwise order from there?
Some distributors have a different location for the wires, it can vary 90
degrees between dizzies.

I just bought a new distributor and installed my electronic ignition in it
this weekend. I got to have a really good look at 3 different distributors.
On a brand new dist, the shaft has no discernable play in it side to side in
any direction. In my worn dist, I could move it slightly in one direction,
which is indicative of worn bushings, which will make your timing erratic.
Put your lips on the vacuum tube and suck, you will see the points plate
move a bit and hear a click if you have a good advance unit. It also tastes
really great. Also, look at the surface of the lobes- is it rusted or rough?
If so it will wear down the new points rubbing block rapidly.

If there is a felt inside the center shaft, put a couple of drops of oil on
it(not too much). Then, holding the bottom drive lugs, turn the centre shaft
left and right to make sure the advance weights are moving freely and not
seized.

Aircooled.net sells the excellent SVDA distributor for like $120. Brand new
and set up by experts to make your bus run like a top. If your dizzies are
less than top notch, consider investing in a great new dizzy.

BTW, too much crankshaft endplay will also make your timing erratic.

Tom

70 High Roof

----- Original Message ----- 
From: "Christopher Renz" <midwestbass(-at-)hotmail.com>
To: "'Tom Young'" <tomyoung1(-at-)comcast.net>; <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Sent: Wednesday, August 06, 2003 5:45 AM
Subject: [T2] vacuum advance


How can you test a vacuum canister?

Isn't there some rule about being able to blow into it or not or
something like that to know it the little bladder inside is still
working correctly or not?

I tried hooking up this other distributor this evening to see if the one
I have been running is what is causing my timing mark to hop all over
