Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2003 02:53:20 -0400 (EDT)
From: "Eric W. Bradway" <eric(-at-)bradway.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] Legal assistance  in Cincinnati

> Had a bad time with a PO who rated the 78 Westy we bought as  a  #2
> (needing no mechanical work) on  SAMBA. Our baby ended up needing over
> $3,000 worth of work.

One man's #2 is another man's pile of junk. See my earlier post about my
father's vehicles (and someone else's post about their friend who bought piles
of junk, drove them for a while and then sold them at a huge markup as
'collectables').

I could also take my bus to three different garages and get three completely
different opinions on what needs to be done and how much it would cost (even
though I intend to drive my bus at least another 5K miles before even the next
tune up and don't expect a major repair sooner).

The only area where I would possibly consider fraud in buy a bus is that if
the PO specifically claimed that the vehicle would pass state emissions
testing but was lacking all necessary equipment (easily racking up a $3K
bill).

> Without going into a lot of detail, the PO has stated he has no moral,
> legal, or ethical responsibility for misrepresenting the bus. To top it  off
> the guy is an Associate minister.

Of the ministers I've known over the years, some have been of the highest
character and some have been the complete opposite (except on Sunday
mornings). My first apartment was in a building owned by a local Baptist
Church and the minister was the 'slum lord'. I moved out after two months of
running water in the entrance way (from the huge whole in the roof - big
enough to climb through) and no running water in the kitchen (was plumbed into
the neighbor's apartment and they moved out). The final straw was the scrawny
rats that my cat would avoid like they carried the plague. No amount of phone
calls would alleviate the problems. He even solemnly promised resolution of
the issues to get the last month's rent out of me. But like I said, though
some of them are saints, I don't take a minister's credentials as evidence of
moral character - just as I wouldn't take a PO's estimate of the condition of
a bus as the complete story of the condition of the bus.

> This is not a simple case of buyer beware, as he blatantly
> misrepresented various aspects of the Westy in his ad.

How did you manage to buy it without verifying the ad in the first place? Did
you pay a high price for the vehicle? If so, did you not get a thorough PPI
from a trusted third party?

Sorry if I seem unsympathetic, but it's hard not to without some background. I
also have very, very little sympathy for people who believe that litigation
really solves problems. Personally, I keep my faith in Karma.

-Eric

-- 
www.bradway.net
