To: type2(-at-)type2.com
From: philipparker(-at-)warwickshire.gov.uk
Date: Thu, 7 Aug 2003 08:05:24 +0100
Subject: Re: [T2] Removing the pulley.

Ahh the fabled "Woodruff key" - what is it ? All the books mention it
without saying what it looks like and how you unlock(pun intended) it.

It may be that the alternator needs re-building (read chucking away and
replacing) but since it is still generating the requisite amount of
electricity and is otherwise fine I hope not. The squeaky noise coming from
it is worse on hot days or if I spray WD40 behind the pulley so I suspect
the front bearing just needs proper lubrication. Whatever it needs though,
that pulley has to come off !

Phil

'71 Doormobile - Ashley
'73 Bug - Marigold


                                                                                                                    
                    "Tom and Thanh"                                                                                 
                    <tom.loan(-at-)rogers.c      To:  <philipparker(-at-)warwickshire.gov.uk>                                 
                    om>                     cc:                                                                     
                                            Subject:  Re: [T2] Removing the pulley.                                 
                    06/08/2003 16:42                                                                                
                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                                    




The rear part of the pulley is on a taper I believe, plus which there's a
woodruff key in there. You could spray some penetrating oil in there from
both sides, wait for it to work it's way in. You will need to pry that rear
half off with long pry bars or screwdrivers. It should come off fairly
easily.
Alternator bearing needs grease? Are you sure it doesn't need a rebuild?
I've never heard of greasing alternators.
Tom

70 High Roof
