Date: Tue, 21 May 2002 16:24:08 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Gear Box Maintenance

>From: Westyfalia(-at-)aol.com
>Date: Sun, 12 May 2002 15:17:25 EDT
>
>I am at the point where I need to perform maintenance on the gear
>reduction boxes and the tranny.  On the my 59 I am assuming it is
>all original so I would be looking for maintenance on this set up.

I did this to my '64 and it's pretty easy.  Run the Bus right before 
you do this to heat up the gear oil and make it drain quicker -
it's pretty thick.  Jack up the back end of the Bus, take the rear
wheels off, and put it on jack stands - try to have it at normal
ride height.  With no wheels, the axles will hang down low which
helps them drain, and with the transmission approximately level it
will drain more completely.

Put drain pans under both RGBs and take out the drain and fill plugs.
The drain plugs may be magnetic; check them for metal shavings.  There
will probably always be a little but if there is a huge wad then you
have other problems.  When the RGBs are mostly drained, shine a
flashlight in the fill hole and rotate the drum with your hand; this
lets you check the teeth on the top gear for damage.  You can do the
same thing for the bottom gear through the drain hole. 

When the RGBs are drained, take out the drain and fill plugs on the
transmission.  Again, the bottom one may be magnetic.  Let the
transmission drain completely.  While you're waiting, eyeball the
rubber boots at the transmission end of the axle shafts; if they're
torn or beat up now is a good time to replace them.  I replaced mine
and created a leak on the left side; I think it's coming from the
seam on the boot -- you're supposed to put some sealer on the seam
which I neglected to do.

When everything is drained, put the trans and RGB drain plugs back in.
Heat up the new gear oil bottle in a bucket of hot water, or put your
incandescent shop light next to it, to make it flow better.  Put the
specified amount of GL-4 gear oil (*NOT* GL-5; GL-5 does *not* supercede
GL-4; NAPA has the right stuff under the Sta-Lube brand) in the RGBs and
put the RGB fill plugs back in.  Then fill up the transmission to the
level of the fill hole.  Wait half an hour, check the transmission
again and top it off if needed, and then put the fill plug back in.
Put it all back together, drive it for a week, and re-check the level
at the transmission.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds


