To: Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Jason Thorpe <thorpej(-at-)wasabisystems.com>
Date: Sun, 25 Apr 2004 18:30:39 -0700
Subject: Mini trip report: Bus-powered West Marin Saturday Bliss-out

A couple of weeks ago, my wife and I agreed to help out a couple of 
friends who volunteer for the Farallon wildlife refuge / marine 
sanctuary on their next trip out (Apr 24)... the task: seal counting 
and data recording.

So, at 8am, the four of us piled into the Bus, stopped to top off the 
tank, headed across the Golden Gate Bridge and up CA-1 to Stinson Beach 
to pick up equipment.  On the way, we passed a bright chartreuse late 
Bay Westy headed the other direction.  Enthusiastic waves out the 
drivers' windows were exchanged.

Equipment gathered, we drove the short distance up CA-1 to our 
designated spot on Bolinas Lagoon.  The weather was just perfect, and 
besides counting harbor seals and their pups and talking to / recording 
arrival/departure of sight-seers, we had nothing to do but enjoy it.  A 
fellow in an air-cooled Vanagon Westy with New Mexico plates stopped 
by, along with his two traveling companions (from New York).

Once our shift was over at 1pm and the next crew came to relieve us of 
the gear, it was time to grab a light lunch.  Drove around the lagoon 
and over to the village of Bolinas.  Green salads and iced tea were 
enjoyed by all.  Our immediate hunger satiated, we took in the Bolinas 
museum and stopped to admire a very clean dark green early 70's Porsche 
911 parked along the street.

Next we proceeded up CA-1 to Point Reyes Station.  The task here was to 
pick up the necessary supplies for our next stop.  Items gathered: 
cheese from the Cowgirl Creamery, a couple of bottles of a nice crisp 
white wine, bag of ice to keep the wine chilled (need to replace that 
darn Aux battery), a few lemons, and a baguette.

Mission accomplished, we proceeded to the destination we'd been looking 
forward to all day: Tomales Bay Oyster Company, a short drive up CA-1 
from Point Reyes Station.  Dinner time!  We bought 4 dozen "extra 
small" ($8/dozen), staked out a picnic table right on the bay, and went 
to work.  By 6pm (closing time), we were experiencing full-blown 
Northern California Bliss.

After dinner, we headed around Tomales Bay and into the village of 
Inverness Park to visit a friend of our friends, and after a nice long 
conversation, it was time to head home.  Our return drive took us back 
down CA-1 to Olema, where we turned eastward onto Sir Francis Drake.  
SF Drake takes you through Samuel P. Taylor State Park (a popular 
camping area), then through Fairfax, San Anselmo, Ross, and then to 
US-101, which we took south to get back to our fair city.  It is always 
so satisfying emerging out of the south end of the Waldo Tunnel - the 
view of the Golden Gate Bridge and the San Francisco skyline at night 
is stunning.

All in all, a perfect Bus outing.

For folks who are local to the San Francisco Bay Area, I would like to 
plan a carabus up CA-1 from San Francisco to the either the Tomales Bay 
Oyster Company or the Hog Island Oyster Company (just a bit further up 
CA-1) sometime this spring/summer, so watch this space if you are 
interested!

Jason Thorpe
'76 Westfalia ('Pod')
San Francisco, CA
http://www.shagadelic.org/pod/

[demime 0.99c.8 removed an attachment of type application/pgp-signature which had a name of PGP.sig]
