Date: Sun, 25 Apr 2004 22:51:02 -0400 (EDT)
From: George Lyle <glyle(-at-)pon.type2.com>
To: Pete Galt <vwdiscup(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] road trip plans [ut,nv,ca]

On Sun, 25 Apr 2004, Pete Galt wrote:

> Hey, I'll be travelling from SLC to Tahoe, CA, starting tomorrow.
> Anyone must-see's or points of interest?

Take US-50 in preference to I-80.  It's much more scenic, fun, and suited
for buses.

CAUTION:  Do not drive this road after dark, not even for a few miles.  It
is OPEN RANGE and all the cattle are BLACK!  I found this out the hard
way, luckily not in a bus or I wouldn't be typing this!  If you pull a
reasonable distance off the road you can camp unmolested, but wait for
daylight to travel!!

In Baker, stop off at Great Basin National Park and take the tour of
Lehman Caves.

In Ely, stop at the Nevada Northern railway museum.  The Nevada Northern
shut down at the end of the steam era, so they have some of the most
"modern" of steam locomotives.  These things are _huge_!  Unlike many
railway museums, they let you wander around the engine sheds and shops.
Don't fall in the pits!

In either Baker or Ely, go to the chamber of commerce or visitor center
and pick up the "Lonliest Road Survival Kit".  This will help you document
your trip on the Lonliest Road in America.

In Eureka, see the Eureka Sentinal Museum.  Eat at the Owl Cafe.

In Austin, see Stokes Castle, and tour the cemetary.  Mining towns usually
have spectacular cemetaries as there was a lot of money around and the
miners belonged to fraternal orders who memorilaized the unfortunates who
died in the mines.

Between Austin and Fallon is the lonliest part of the lonliest road.
About halfway across this stretch you'll pass the turnoff for Dixie
Valley, where I lived as a child.  Not much there now as it is a US Navy
(!) electronic warfare range.  Also along this stretch you might see the
real US Navy Top Gun pilots doing their stuff.  You are basically
following the Pony Express and Overland Stage route and can see the
remains of their stations.

You'll pass Salt Wells before you get to Fallon.  Yes, it is a bordello,
and yes, it's legal.  Gotta love Nevada!

In Fallon, see the Churchill County Museum.  Eat at the Stockman's Casino.

If you want to go to the north shore of Tahoe, head for Reno from Fallon.
If you want to go to the south shore of Tahoe, stay on US-50 to Carson
City.

You may want to make a side trip to Virginia City, the famed mining town.
It's touristy, but can be fun.

In Carson City, go to the state museum with its gold and silver exhibits
and underground mine.  There is also the excellent Northern Nevada railway
museum with Virginia and Truckee engines and rolling stock from the late
19th century.  If you have children along, there is an excellent
Children's museum in Carson City as well.

From Carson City, go south and watch for the Lake Tahoe signs.

Hope this helps.  Enjoy your trip!

George Lyle
