Date: Mon, 26 Apr 2004 08:18:20 -0400 (EDT)
From: librarian <librarian(-at-)uulibrary.com>
To: Pete Galt <vwdiscup(-at-)yahoo.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] road trip plans [ut,nv,ca]

On Sun, 25 Apr 2004, Pete Galt wrote:

> Hey, I'll be travelling from SLC to Tahoe, CA, starting tomorrow.
> Anyone must-see's or points of interest?

Hmmm... well... Mr. Lyle is more local than I by a long shot so I would
trust him rather than me but since it's very subjective....

I agree with Mr. Lyle that US 50 is the way to go. My addition to his
highlights would be to come down out of Moab on I-70 to US 50 and take 50
over to Delta and collect some trilobites.  Do it in town if you are in a
hurry or head out to the quarry if you have the time. After filling up (no
gas next 10,000 miles!) take US 50/Utah and Nevada 6 over to Ely.  Take 50
toward but not to Austin, NV.  As you pass the various ranges to your
south in the Toiyabe National Forest (motto: Wrap it up, boys... we're
DONE!) at least one of the dirt roads on the left down the valleys leads
to a spot where you can pull over for the night and get up at 3AM, go out
for a break and NOT SEE AN ELECTRIC LIGHT!  It may sound trivial, but this
is the only place in the continental United States where I have found that
this to be possible.

If you choose to travel I-80....

If you have to make it in one day this is probably the way to go.  You
waste the least possible time and hit the fewest grades although the one
into Reno/Trukee is still steep (that's what we call a "euphemism", son).
Since it is Donner pass of course I suggest you bring plenty of food just
in case[1].  The one "tourist attraction" on that route is that you get to
stop for gas and whatever services you require in Battle Mountain, NV.
For the "Official Tour Guide" to Battle Mountain search Google with the
string "battle mountain worst" and read the top two hits.

                             OOK!

Litera Scripta Manent

[1] I have always wanted to go to a restaurant know for long lines and
give my name as "Donner" and start with 10 people and return to the
maitre' de station every ten minutes to decrease the party by one:
Donner, party of ten...
Donner, party of nine...
etc. etc.
Finally show up with three friends and say that we are full and leave.[2]

[2] I'm sorry, wierd day today.
