From: "Walkingboss" <walkingboss(-at-)bellsouth.net>
To: "Rus" <rusb01(-at-)yahoo.com>, <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 3 Jan 2006 17:14:56 -0600
Subject: Re: [T2] Re: HELP with pinging

Hi Rus,

    Tight valves, and pinging? Sounds like its running very hot! Also sounds
like your about to "drop" a valve!!!! The valve that is too "long" is
stretched, and fixing to let go! It probably #3 exhaust valve. Right? Just a
guess but not important which one, main thing is when they stretch the head
will pop off and wipe out the piston, head, and maybe the cylinder and rod.
I even had one somehow wedge its self between the rod cap and case, and
breaking the case.
    I would not run it much more until you fix the valve and address the
overheating problem.
    Do you have any way to check the engine temperature, cylinder head temp
gauge, oil temp gauge, etc? If not a "back door" way to tell if its running
hot.....after running at speed for a while can you grab the dipstick? If not
it usually means it running hot. Not the most accurate way to check, but
better that nothing.
    Is this something new? Is all your engine tin in good shape and in
place? Is you engine seal to body good and in place? Does your engine make a
"roaring noise" in the fanhousing area (somewhat like a V8 domestic water
cooled car)? If so check for something like a rag or leaves in your fan. And
then there's the obvious, fan belt tight, ignition timing right-on, dwell
set, no vacuum leaks, lean mixture (plugs should be light brown toward
black, not light gray with "shinny" flecks), handbrake not part way on,
service brakes not dragging, tires fully inflated, clutch not slipping, etc,
etc. If the plugs are light gray and have the death flecks you have done
some major damage, time to pull it and look inside.
    Just some food for thought! Good luck!

Howard


My
> THING engine ping problem. I finally got time to check
> the valves and OH MY GOD I dont know who had been
> keeping maintenence up on it but those valves were so
> tight i had to turn out the adjust ment screws several
> times just to get my feeler gage in. Got them all
> adjusted But it still pings pretty bad....the timing
> is set to as close as i can get it
