Date: Wed, 04 Jan 2006 18:12:02 -0500
From: Mad Uncle Dave <MadUncleDave(-at-)charter.net>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Workin' on the bus

Hey y'all
I traded an old BMW motorcycle I had layin' around for a 71 bus a while 
back.  Yeah, the 1 year I swore I'd never own because of the betweenness 
of it all.  The body's in great shape, only 1 pinhole I could find on 
intensive inspection, surface rust on the nose and around the front 
window.  Both vehicles were in about the same condition, not having run 
in a while and in need of TLC so Ed and I both thought we each got the 
better end of the deal.  Before I could bring the bus home I had to 
charge the battery and get the varnish out of the carb but after that we 
were able to drive the 10 miles or so to the Karmarosa Farm and VW 
resting spot.  On arrival there was a great cloud of brake smoke from 
the right front and a cloud of oil smoke roiling from the engine room.

I did the brakes and replaced the left Tie Rod end a while ago, no drama 
on the test drive but the oil cloud came back.  Ed told me it was 
probably the oil sending unit but that was dry and the oil was all over 
the right side of the engine, where the fan usually blows it when the 
leak is in the shroud.

Yesterday I put the cabinets back in the Award Winning Burrito Express 
and moved it out of the barn to make room for the Puddle Jumper (newbus' 
name).  This morning I brought the Puddle Jumper around and backed it 
into the barn.  There was a trailer hitch kinda in the way but it 
unbolted fairly easy with proper application of Kroil on the rusty bolts 
after the apron came off.   Unhooked the brake vacuum line (PITA) all 
the wires, fuel line, throttle cable.  Unbolted the lower bolts on the 
mustache bar, slid a bottle jack under the tranny.  Skidded under to 
undo the 4 engine mounting fasteners but there were only 3.  1 was 
finger tight.  Hmmm.  Supposedly the local VW guru did the work on this bus.

Put the floor jack under the engine, a tug and out she came with a spin 
to clear the apron and trailer hitch mounts.  Up on the 2 milk crates 
and there it is.

Remove the intake and the fan shroud, sure enough a clean spot at the 
base of the oil cooler.  Pull the oil cooler and replace all 4 seals, 
cooler to mount and mount to case.  While it's out I'll retorque the 
case and heads.  There was a bit of oil in the bell housing so I'll pull 
the flywheel and check the rear main and end play.  Soak it good with 
the not really as good as it used to be engine cleaner and off to the we 
don't care car wash for a good pressure wash.  I learned a while ago to 
back off all the valve adjusters and let the valves seal the cylinders 
while I do this in case I get some water in an intake port.

Has anyone else found a place where you get oil on the right side of the 
engine besides from the oil cooler?  I'd like to know so I don't miss 
anything.

Anyone know of a source for an electric 12V vacuum pump that could run 
the brake booster?  If I could eliminate that possible leak I'd be happier.

Mad Uncle Dave
