From: "Jeff Stewart" <fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net>
To: "type2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Cc: "bugpack" <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Date: Wed, 4 Jan 2006 22:51:02 -0200
Subject: John Brown's Buses Date For 2006

Hey Everyone,
              It looks like the dates for JBB this year will be October 6-7-8. As discussed at last years camp out, the event will be moved from the Harpers Ferry KOA to the Brunswick Family Campground in Brunswick Maryland. It has also been moved up a couple of weeks to coincide with Brunswick's "Railroad Days" event. "Railroad Days" is Brunswick's celebration of it's heritage as an early 1900's railroad town, and it is listed in the National Register of Historic Places. There were too many issues last year with the KOA, and I have talked with the caretaker of the Brunswick campground and they would love to have us, plus their rate is much less than the KOA, AND they don't mind if two buses share a site, making the cost even less. The campground is right on the Potomac river and the C&O Canal. The campground is owned/run by the town of Brunswick, and is "alcohol-free", but I'm sure a 'red cup' policy like at Everybus would get around this. "Railroad Days" features lots of arts & crafts vendors, food, and train rides (on a modern train, not an old one. Here is an excerpt from Brunswicks website:
 
The original town was situated between the tracks of the B&O Railroad, and the C&O Canal. Both the B&O Railroad and the C&O canal came to the town the same year, 1834. In 1907 the B&O Railroad yards were completed, East bound and West bound to make up trains. This yard was the largest and busiest such railroad yard in the world.

Today Brunswick is a city with more than 5000 residents. It is a major stop on the Maryland Rail Commuter (MARC) Train line to Washington, D.C. Many professional people reside here. The town has modern facilities for its citizens: a fire company and Ambulance service, fine schools and churches, doctors and dentists, a modern library, a new community center, several parks, fishing and boating on the Potomac River, C&O Canal towpath, many public service organizations, and a fine museum with one of the largest model train layouts on the east coast. 

The campground is exactly one mile from town, within walking/biking distance. It is only six miles east of the old location at Harpers Ferry. The phone number for the campground is: 301-834-8050, and for city hall: 301-834-7500. If you plan on attending, I would make reservations early, as it may fill up due to the "Railroad Days" event.   

Jeff Stewart
fonman4277(-at-)earthlink.net
http://autos.groups.yahoo.com/group/vwcampersmidatlantic/
