Date: Sat, 29 Jul 2006 21:49:19 -0700 (PDT)
From: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] cranks but wont run

--- richard carlton <browndog32(-at-)gmail.com> wrote:

> what would be the very first thing that you guys
> checked if your FI engine
> would fire but then immediatly quit?
> 
Okay - it's been a few years and I'm gonna try this on
memory, so I may wander off course! If you have played
with any wiring, I suspect the wire that feeds the
double relay from the coil circuit has been forgotten
and is dangling somewhere! Correct me if I'm wrong,
folks, but isn't one of the wires that connects to the
coil that wire that keeps the double relay activeated?
As mentioned the connection at the airflow meter must
be snapped in tight as that activates the relay to run
the pump when there is airflow. If the engine only
runs while the key is in the start position, you're
getting power to the double relay directly from the
solenoid. As soon as you release the key from START
the relay opens again. It is also possible that the
double relay is defective and is not latching in the
ON position.

Another possibility, especially if your engine has had
a good belch of a backfire lately, besides blowing the
large vacuum hoses loose (but they appear to be still
connected, so you need to grab hold of every
connection to confirm) the "VANE" inside the airflow
meter can get stuck. I believe they usually stick wide
open, but they can also stick shut. You can pull the
"S-HOSE" loose from the airflow meter and reach in
there with a long finger and flip the vane back and
forth. It should move pretty easily - just push on it
this way and that until it moves.

If there is black smoke, your head temp sensor by #3
spark plug is possibly bad or the coldstart injector
is stuck "ON". If no black smoke, other problems can
be fuel supply - no fuel, blocked line, failing pump.
Please let us know what you find. Hope I've helped. -BaH

'79 "Bussy" (BUSARU 2.2)
Visit my ever-changing albums at
http://photos.yahoo.com/busahaulic01
