Date: Sun, 30 Jul 2006 06:20:01 -0700 (PDT)
From: "Kevin H. Roberts" <bopsax(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com>
Cc: type2 List <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Subject: Re: [T2] starter problem?

Thanks for the detailed information.  What's funny is, in the  seven or eight years that I've owned this bus, I've never experienced  this problem.  I did have to put a starter on last year.  I  found the receipt.  4-8-05. 16 months old.  Out of  warranty.  I needed it on a Sunday and found a Beck-Arnley reman  in stock at my FLAPS.  I used to sell auto parts and had very few  returns on B-A stuff.  But anything is possible.  I'm going  to keep an eye on it.  The bus had not been run in an hour or so  when it happened so I'm suspicious about the hot start problem.   But the remote start switch may be a good thing to do as there are  other uses for it.  That may be my next move.  Thanks and  cheers....KR

Busahaulic <busahaulic01(-at-)yahoo.com> wrote:  I  jumped in to run to the
> store.  No start.  Nada.  I  think I could hear the
> starter click but I checked all the connections  and
> everything seemed to be hooked up right.  Well,
> after doing  some other stuff I checked it again and
> it fired right up.  Hasn't  done it again yet.  
I bet this is the single most covered topic in the
archives, but I haven't tackled it yet (here) so here
goes: There are several causes for this behavior and
several stop-gap "solutions" as well as one real fix.
The solenoid activates the starter electrically and
mechanically. It has a piston that is drawn
magnetically through a cylinder. When it reaches the
end, it closes a switch as well as having engaged the
starter gear.
1) Electrically, the power flows from the battery
through the wiring to the key switch where it is
switched in the START position to flow back again, the
length of the vehicle, to power the solenoid.
Corrosion, over the past 25 years, has added
resistance to every junction/connection along the way.
The starter switch has fatigued and decayed as well as
just plain worn. The voltage level back at the
solenoid is probably quite a bit lower than the
battery voltage.
2) The piston has to move through that cylinder that
has accumulated crud for however long it has been down
there near the rear wheel... It is not sealed.
Typically, in really messy wet weather or very hot
weather, the pistons stick. It is not unusual in hot
weather to have it work after a cool-down period.

The solution to the wiring problem is to either
replace the wiring or to trim wires back about an inch
and solder on new terminals. Some people just dip the
ends in muriatic acid to remove the corrosion and then
solder in new terminals and re-insulate as
appropriate. The key switches do wear out. the
electrical part can be replaced seperately from the
cylinder portion. This is the proper fix, but few
people go that far!

Some people add a relay back at the starter so that
the small amount of voltage that gets there needs only
to activate the relay (an easy job) and the power for
the solenoid is drawn directly from the big wire from
the battery. Chrysler relays (I think for headlights
but could be for horn) are easy to find and very
inexpensive. Radio Shack has a 12V DC relay of 20 amp
capacity that is more than adequate for the job.

Most of us have at one time or another crawled under
the bus with a screwdriver or a wrench and - after
pulling the spade connector off and out of the way,
jumped from the big terminal to the bare spade
connector. Always have the brake on full, the tranny
out of gear. Usually it is not necessary to actually
start the engine that way, as usually that little kick
will get the piston moving and you can reconnect the
spade connector and return to the drivers seat and
start it in the conventional manner. Otherwise, leave
the key in the ON position and you can start the
engine from under there.

My bus always used this as a way to get even with me
when I drove him too hard. He'd wait til I parked over
a big oil puddle or mud hole and get his revenge,
knowing I would have to crawl underneath to jump the
starter solenoid. I cooked his goose by installing a
heavy gauge starter switch in the engine compartment
that bypassed the solenoid and the entire front wiring
loop. He never tried that trick on me again!

You can pull the solenoid off and clean it up, then
reassemble with tape sealing the big crack where all
the junk gets in.

I used to buy Bosch re-manned starters every 13-14
months (12 month warranty) The starters never failed -
it was always the solenoids. One day I was at a local
starter / alternator rebuilder's and asked him about a
replacement solenoid. He reached into a big box on a
shelf behind the counter and pulled one out and set it
on the counter. $23.00 is what he charged me. There
are two models - one is missing one of the spade
terminals but can be used anyway with a short pigtail
from the big wire terminal. I never had another
starter problem after buying a NEW solenoid!
Regardless of all the bad wiring, a new solenoid did
the trick.

I did have one occasion to use my remote starter
switch after that, but it was very rare. 

Hope I've helped. - BaH
