From: "Justin Pentecost" <cameflex(-at-)tiscali.co.uk>
To: "buslist" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 30 Jul 2006 21:58:27 +0100
Subject: Top Weekend ... I love Type II's :)

So .. as you may or may not know my type two connection is that a very
lovely young (20) friend of ours has a type two that she uses during the
summer, we've known her since she was 12.   During the winter I look after
the van and put it through the MOT etc .. (her dad pays all the bills (He
just happens to be a millionaire in medium sized way)).

Last week she was at a campsite in the Central Massif (France) and while
there were five girls asleep in the bus someone opened the front door (I
wish I hadn't oiled the locks!) and stole her bag.    In it was her
passport, mobile phone, bank cards and most importantly the keys for the
bus.    Her dad called me and I sent the spare set of keys by Datapost
(Small tip here use FEDEX) and when they arrived it became obvious that this
would not help.    When they told the police that they could not move the
van the police had it recovered to a local garage.    The garage cut out the
lower part of the lock and removed the steering lock then they made up a way
that the bus could be "Hotwired" with two bits of wire.   Fair enough ..

They drove to a Chateau near Avignon that her father rented for the summer
... He saw the Hotwires and became somewhat distressed ... He phoned me up
and asked what the hell he should do,  He wasn't impressed with the "Mess"
that the French mechanic had made of it.     I thought about it, Grabbed my
passport and drove to Waterloo, Eurostar to Paris and then the TGV to
Avignon (300KPH and you don't even get ripples on your (superb) coffee).
By 3pm on saturday I was there .. The French Mechanic had (In my opinion)
done exactly the right thing and I explained this to all and sundry.   I
just extended the wires out to a new Ignition switch that I mounted on the
dashboard and used male Lucars in the connector.    I am taken to be the
hero of the party (There is nothing more satisfying than a bunch of very
rich intelectuals fawning over a practical person).

I then spent a lovely night in a chateau with a load of very high spirted
young people eating some beautiful food and then came back on the the TGV
and eurostar ..

Justin ..
