Date: Sun, 30 Jul 2006 16:15:07 -0700 (PDT)
From: Paul Manning <paulmanning97(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: upper torsion arm won't go in

symtom: right-side upper torsion arm won't go in all the way.  There's
about 1/4" still sticking out.  Tried repeating the install process 3
times with the same result.  I've banged on it so much its starting to
mushroom (on the outside where I'm hitting it).

pertinent background:
followed Library instruction by Mike Gensler (though it doesn't really
cover the install part).
using torsion arms from Bus-boys.  They sure looked nice when I opened
the box.
The upper on the left side went in nice and easy.
I'm using a wrecking bar to raise the arm up over that steel bit that
sticks out with the rubber stops on it.
The upper rubber thing (#17/18 in the instruction) was removed.

Questions:
simply put, what would prevent the arm from sliding the rest of the way
in?  
Are there differences between different year's arms?  From the Bentley,
the only difference is a cap on the top of ball joint before '73.  From
what I can tell, this doesn't factor in.
Could there be some thing wrong with the tube that I can't see with my
weak-ass flashlight?
Could one of the tension-bars inside the tube be all messed up?  I'd
think I would have had a problem left-side one if there was.

I've been banging on this most of the afternoon, and, though my
neighbors are patient, I'm running out of energy to swing a
sledgehammer anymore.  There has to be a reason for it not going in. 
The left-side one went in really easy, and I did it after considerable
frustration with the right-side one, so I figure I must be doing the
right things.  I've been photographing along the way thinking they
might be a handy addition to Gensler's instruction.  Once my problem
gets figured out, it might be a useful footnote for future ball-joint
replacement efforts.

Any and all ideas welcome. If you're local, I'll be continuing my
efforts today and tomorrow.  You're more than welcome to stand and
point if you've got nothing else going on.

Paul Manning
Lake Oswego, OR
1972 Westy (Hapy)
