Date: Tue, 30 Jan 2007 23:15:10 -0800 (PST)
From: Sean Dorman <croftyest(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Type2 list <type2(-at-)type2.com>, vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [VB] Questions about the metal fuel line to fuel pump in

http://www.wolfsburgwest.com/wolfsburg_new/fuelsystem/index.cfm
   
  Wrapping your line with a rubberband, innertube or piece of gum is not a good idea. Why not do  it they way you should. The above should help you to see how. 
   
  Sean

"Donnellan, Michael (ENRD)" <Michael.Donnellan(-at-)usdoj.gov> wrote:
  I had not planned to remove the motor (1600DP w/ doghouse
cooler), but a broken exhaust stud changed that. Now I am planning to
re-install my motor, I am thinking about improvements I would like to
make. One "improvement" I would like to make is to install the stock
metal fuel line that goes from the front (FIF) of the engine tin around
the fan housing to the fuel pump. I once bought a metal fuel line that
was supposed to serve this purpose, but I could not figure out any way
to make fit on my motor.
I know that the place where the metal fuel line passes through
the front tin is an historic problem area, but I believe that there are
adequate fixes for this (Bob Hoover had one involving lamp parts and, I
think I recall that veewee111 recommends wrapping the fuel line w/
bicycle inner tube). I think that, in the event of an engine fire, I'd
rather have metal fuel line running through the engine compartment.
Anyway, I have never seen a motor in person or detailed pictures
with this fuel line installed. I have two questions:

1) Are there any detailed pictures anywhere showing this fuel
line installed. I vaguely understand that it bends around the fan
housing. I don't understand exactly how it is routed. Did the location
of the hole in the front tin move over time? I don't understand how the
metal fuel line connects to the fuel pump.

2) Does anyone sell this metal fuel line with the correct
shape for the doghouse cooler? Is there a different shape for doghouse
coolers?

Thanks for your help,

Michael
1970 Westafalia w/ 1600DP
Silver Spring, MD USA





    Give a man a fish and he will eat for a day. Teach him how to fish and hell sit in the boat and drink all day.
   
   
  This message may contain confidential and/or privileged information.  If
you are not the addressee or authorized to receive this for the
addressee, you must not use, copy, disclose, or take any action based on
this message or any information herein.  If you have received this
message in error, please advise the sender immediately by reply e-mail
and delete this message.  Thank you for your cooperation.




 
---------------------------------
Don't pick lemons.
See all the new 2007 cars at Yahoo! Autos.
