To: VW - Type 2 mailing list <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Chris Slaymaker <Nurofiz(-at-)knology.net>
Date: Wed, 31 Jan 2007 20:08:33 -0500
Subject: Broken pulley

While driving home from work yesterday, I noticed a peculiar smell, as 
if something was heating.  Gauges were OK, there was no smoke coming 
from under the dash.  I just kept on driving down the road.

When I got to a point where a had slowed down to merge with traffic 
(about 5-6 miles later), I noticed a new noise.  After about a block, I 
pulled over and popped the lid.  The alternator looked like sh!t.  I 
figured the bearings were shot and the shaft was wallowing.  I knew the 
belt that I bought a few months ago was too tight, even though I had 
all the washers between the pulley halves.

I pulled away, trying to baby it on home, (just a few more miles).  I 
was coasting down a hill with the engine in neutral, and it gradually 
slowed down, then quit.  When I needed power again, I popped the clutch 
and proceeded on.  That's when I noticed smoke billowing out the back.  
I pulled over again and popped the lid, standing well away from any 
backdraft.  Fortunately, there was no fire, but it was pretty obvious 
the fan belt was no good any more.

What had happened is that the front half (FIF) of the pulley had 
separated from the shaft part of it and chewed up the face (rear) of 
the alternator, then effectively "seized" to it.

I found a new (to me) pulley a few counties away the next day (today) 
and I'm now back in business (I really need a back-up car).

Is there any way I can find a new facing (rear plate) for my 
alternator?  It's a Bosch with the built in voltage regulator.  I 
bought a used one, hoping I could cannibalize it, but its a Motorola 
from a Beetle without the internal voltage regulator.   I am told it's 
still good - fully functional.  I will trade for a broken Bosch.  
Perhaps at Everybus?

Chris Slaymaker

What's the perfect automobile?
Nothing more than you really need.
Everything it takes to get you where you want to go.
Volkswagen Type 2.
