From: "Jon Stiles" <jon(-at-)jonathanstiles.com>
To: "'John Rogers'" <jnrogers(-at-)verizon.net>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Thu, 1 Feb 2007 09:56:15 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] high octane gas

Good point. I do run premium fuel on really hot days.

 

Last year I became curious about gasoline octane and VW Type 1 engines. So
last summer I did a "test" and found some interesting results.

 

"Test" engine/vehicle description:

1970 Double Cab pickup.

1600 SP with a stock carb

 009 dizzy (no flame-mail please) with a Comp-U-Fire DIS-IX conversion set
at 28 degrees total advance.

All factory Tin sealed and in place with working thermostat and flaps.

 

I ran Premium Shell V-Power fuel for one month and recorded a mpg increase
of 1.5mpg on average. 

According to the weatherbase.com, the average temperature in July was 71
degrees.

This was mixed driving.

Note: the performance observations are "seat-of-the-pants"

 

Observations:

Power and torque curve came on smoother

Low end Torque felt less

Top End power increased

Mid-Range power was the same

Engine ran noticeably cooler (hand test)

Motor would not idle below 50 degrees

Eventually the motor wouldn't idle at all.

 

Pulled the sparkplugs and found them fouled with ash deposits.

Checked the compression and found all cylinders above 115 psi.

I found this was caused by the high concentration of detergents in the Shell
Premium V-Power fuel. The cylinder's temperature was not high enough to
completely burn the detergents out of the cylinder. Odd since the coil was a
60,000 volt unit. The cooler running engine eventually reduced performance.

Curiously, Sinclair Premium and Phillips 76 would not idle either below 50
degrees. But those brands didn't foul the plugs.

 

FYI comparing compression ratios:

7.6 to 1 in a stock VW motor is low compared to more modern engines.

All stock type "D" Honda motors run 9.4 to 1 and run on regular octane, many
don't have V-TEC and don't employ knock sensors and other trickery. They do
use specifically shaped heads and piston tops to minimize slow low-octane
burn rates. 

Stock carbureted 350 ci and TBI injected Chevy motors run an average of
8.5-8.75 to 1 compression. The later Vortec models ran 9.0 to 1.

Back in the 70s Ferrari had to lower their compression ratios on their V-12
engines to 8.8-1 so their engines would accept the US's low-grade fuels.

 

The relatively low compression in a VW motor is optimal for modification,
hence the huge aftermarket scene. It can take a lot of abuse and was
designed to run on just about every mixture of fuel in post-war Germany. So
expensive high-octane fuel is definitely a personal choice.

 

I now run regular octane during the cooler months and save premium fuel for
+90 degree forecasted weather or for hot days on road trips with mountains
on the route.

 

Cheers,

 

Jon Stiles
