Date: Fri, 2 Feb 2007 15:46:50 +1200
To: VW type 2 late aircooled <type2(-at-)type2.com>
From: Robt Mann <robtm(-at-)xtra.co.nz>
Subject: Re: [T2] high octane gas

>the number on the pumps in the USA is RON + MON divided by 2.

	Yes.  Your 'pump octane number' is the mean of measurements 
at 2 different rpm.
	MON is a measure of propensity to pre-ignition at "hi" revs 
-  300 rpm from memory  -  on the single-cyl test engine going back 
to Ricardo who gve us the Ford V8 combustion chamber  '-{
	For petrol made from oil, it usually turns out that the MON 
is c.10 points below the RON.  For the synthetic petrol made at Sasol 
(S. Africa) or  -  1981-c.1993  -  at the Mobil/Bechtel plant in NZ, 
the MON turns out to be disastrously lower.

	Unfortunately, compression ratio CR is not the only influence 
on tendency to knock with a given petrol.  The combustion chamber 
design is important.  A 'good' Ford V8 (flathead, 1932-53) CR at most 
7.2:1 will knock somewhat after the manner of a bastard even on 96 
RON, whereas the Renault 'pentroof' chamber allows 8.5:1   -  on 
admittedly smaller cylinders, which helps  -  without knocking on 96. 
The VW chamber is intermediate in merit.
	The cheapest & best knock-preventer is water-injection.  My 
Norton Domiracer (300cc air-cooled cylinders with CR 13:1) cannot be 
made to knock even by opening the throttle fairly wide at low speeds. 
Altho' the fuel is avgas + 10% methanol, it would readily knock 
before I slapped in water.

	As for slapping water into the Brazilian Weber, I've tried v 
big needles on the vac nozzle that goes to the distributor and get no 
worthwhile suction.  I've therefore taken up Mark of Salem's 
suggestion and put a small needle in the vac pipe on the intake just 
inside (below) the carb, and the water bottle (3 litre) sitting on 
the platform just L of the spark leads.   I really should go digital 
for photography soon  ...  meanwhile, a 0.63 mm needle gives a 
just-workable water:fuel feed ratio c.35% i.e c.70 mpg  -  bottle 
needs filling far to plurry often  -  starting harder, idling needs 
some throttle till hot, then idle OK, power incr, accel from 20 mph 
in 3rd OK, won't knock on 91 RON (c.86 - 87 USA octane)
	It achieves the 'rolloff to cruise' effect reported from the 
Jawa 50 tests  -  accel to cruise speed, then roll off throttle to 
find speed does not drop.
	I've been away camping but on an island with no VW access and 
have therefore not racked up enough mi with this first WI rig to 
assert a fuel mileage, but I did get 25 mpg when 2 previous tanks had 
been 22 mpg.  But this motor (DP 1600) is still running in so this 
comparison is not reliable.
	I hesitate to post these very scanty preliminary results, but 
did want to pass them along as encouragement to any who may try WI on 
carbs.  If you want 130 octane equivalent, for free, humidify!

R

R
