From: "Snoopy" <vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net>
To: <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
Date: Thu, 14 Feb 2002 21:54:27 -0500
Subject: Edisto Freeze Yer Toe III....  Feb 22-24, 2002  You are invited


Hi Volks,
It's that time of year again... Time to come freeze with the Full Moon Bus
Club at Edisto Beach State Park in South Carolina (South of Charleston and
North of Savannah).  Come early as the campground does not accept
reservations, first come first serve, 2 spaces can be reserved by the handicapable.  The
gates
close at 6PM.  So if you plan on coming later, check
http://quicksitemaker.com/members/snoop/Edisto.html. I am planning on going
down on Thursday nite so I should be able to get the gate code for the
weekend and call someone to post it on the site.  If for some reason you
miss it on the site look for this rock. http://quicksitemaker.com/members/snoop/therock.html
.
 I will place it to the left of the exit gate (the one with the padlock)  I am going to
paint
the code on the bottom.  This hopefully will keep us out of trouble as the
ranger won't notice it as easily as a sign.  You can pay in the morning.

We plan on having Breakfast Burritos on Sat morning, a Everybus Stew for
dinner that nite and maybe breakfast on Sunday.  For any interested I plan
to lead a carabus to Mellow Mushroom in downtown Charleston for lunch.  Good
Eats....  If you would like to contribute to the groceries for the communal
meals please go to http://quicksitemaker.com/members/snoop/edistogrocerylist.html  And let
me know what you can bring.

We also plan on having a bonfire Sat nite with door prizes.  All of the
prizes will be donated, so if you have something you would like to donate
please bring it.  Remember we need kids prizes and adult.  I try to make
sure the kids all get a prize first so no feelings get hurt.

Edisto is a very beautiful island that is rapidly eroding away.  In a few
more years the campground will be gone.  Come enjoy while you can.....

Bring your own firewood cause you won't find any there.....

On another note....
For those that would like to purchase Full Moon Bus Club Patches...  You can
either order them thru the mail or buy some at Edisto Freeze Yer Toe.  For
pics of both patches check out
http://www.geocities.com/snoopyvwbus/patches.html  These are quality
patches, the pic does not do it justice.  Only 100 of each made...  and they
are going fast....

Could someone please post to the vanagon list for me..

Hope to see you at Edisto Freeze Yer Toe III

Peace Brothers and Sisters,
Snoopy
webmaster
Full Moon Bus Club - Home of the world famous Breakfast Burritos.
http://www.fullmoonbusclub.com

If you are going to walk on thin ice,
You may as well dance.










