From: "Jackson Burgess" <jb(-at-)nv.net>
To: "'Doktor Tim'" <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sat, 20 Jul 2002 20:57:52 -0700
Subject: RE: [T2] LOUD FUEL PUMP?

Thanks for the input, Dok, and no doubt you're right. I didn't say it,
Busboys did, so I have no intention of getting into a p***ing contest
over it, especially considering the quality of *most* rebuilt parts,
including complete motors. Look under FI at:

http://www.bus-boys.com/

They don't say they were rebuilt by Bosch. And I would advise anyone
thinking of buying to find out why they think it's better than the
original. But designed to be rebuilt or not, they are being rebuilt,
unless Busboys are lying, and I doubt that. And if they say they will
guarantee it for 6 months, I expect they will. 

I will say this: any fuel pump that costs 250.00 (and the '74 CA
automatic pump is going for 442.00!) bloody well ought to last a
lifetime. Gold is only 324.00 an ounce today. If I could get that much
for a part, I wouldn't design it to be rebuilt, either. By the way, what
is the guarantee from Bosch on new pumps?

Since we've come this far, I will put in my .02 on fuel pumps. I say
that any fuel system that simply requires that a *constant* pressure be
maintained can be served by any fuel pump that will reliably maintain
that pressure at the required volume of flow (which can't be huge in a
VW). Take a V8 NASCAR engine, for example. How many of them are using
Bosch pumps? How many failure do you hear about? I'm sure many of us
have put hundreds of thousands of miles on non-Bosch street cars without
replacing the electric fuel pumps--I know I have. For the most part,
Bosch makes great parts, although we all know there are exceptions. On
the other hand, if I can find a quality pump that will do the job for
half or a quarter of the money, I will certainly inquire and consider,
loyalty to brand names notwithstanding. I try to remind myself of that
by recalling that VW designed the waterboxer. A friend of mine just got
a quote of over 800.00 for the two-speed '90 Vanagon radiator cooling
fan motor. Whether that part was Bosch or not, I'm sure you get the
point.

Jaxon Burgess
San Diego
'79 ASI Conversion


-----Original Message-----
From: Doktor Tim [mailto:doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com] 
Sent: Saturday, July 20, 2002 5:06 PM
To: Jackson Burgess
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] LOUD FUEL PUMP?

At 02:16 PM 07/20/2002, you wrote:

>Busboys has a Bosch rebuilt, which they say is better than new and
>guaranteed for 6-mos, for 127.50 plus 45.00 core.

Sorry, but Bosch Corporation does not supply rebuilt fuel pumps. I have
yet 
to see a core value from them. According to Bosch, the FI pumps were not

designed to be rebuilt. What various and sundry suppliers of rebuilt
pumps 
may be Bosch pumps, but they are not rebuilt by Bosch.

To say the rebuilds are better than a New Bosch pump is simply
ridiculous. 


