From: CTONLINE(-at-)webtv.net (Terry K.)
Date: Sun, 21 Jul 2002 11:27:12 -0500 (CDT)
To: sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com (Janice Bartmess)
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com (T2)
Subject: Re: [T2] painting question

Janice,
I'm not sure what you mean by "bounce", but you will still experience
overspray with the HLVP--there is no such thing as lack of---
The only system that you will get almost totally zero overspray is with
an electrostatic spray set up---where all of the paint is electrically
attracted to the vehicle your refinishing.
And now your talking mucho denaro's--
I paid $3500.00 for the Wagner set up I have--and that was cheap.
But even then it doesn't lay the paint down  as nice as a suction gun---

And neither will the gravity feed gun.

Go to NorthernTool.com, and buy yourself a $19.00 suction feed Binks
look alike, paint all the vehicles you have to paint, and throw the gun
in the garbage---this is the most economic, cost efficient way to do
this job for the inexperienced hobbyist--

Staple some viscuine on the walls, put the blower out the window, and
hose down the floor good, and go for it--- 

 
E-mail message From Janice=A0Bartmess 

I guess that the main thing that appealed to me about the HVLP systems,
from the information on that first page, is the lack of "bounce" and
overspray, dust and paint waste. I have a very limited area in which to
paint.. basically a two car garage with plastic drop sheets to help
reduce overspray. I could hook up a ventilation system of sorts. I have
a pretty high volume air exhaust fan and I could get some ducting pretty
cheap. Right now, I have six vehicles that would all greatly benefit
from a paint job. I could take them to a painting shop.. we have a One
Day nearby. That's what I was going to do originally. But all of these
except one, a bug, are vans or bigger. Those don't get the bargain
rates. $$$ So, I thought maybe that this is something worth getting
into. Even if I broke even on the cost of the system and paint, if I
owned the system when I was done, that would be cool. Well, I am not an
experienced painter, and that is sure going to make a difference in the
results I get. I do have a standard spray gun that I bought from a local
auto-paint auto-body store.. we have a few of those around, too. We also
have a nice portable compressor. So, I could go with that, but I got the
impression that a novice could get a better result with less mess from
an HVLP system. 
Any more thoughts? TIA.. Jan B 

