Date: Sun, 21 Jul 2002 11:04:46 -0700
To: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
From: Doktor Tim <doktortim(-at-)rockisland.com>
Cc: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] painting question

At 08:59 AM 07/21/2002, you wrote:
>Right now, I have six vehicles that would all greatly benefit from a paint 
>job.  Even if I broke even on the cost of the system and paint, if I owned 
>the system when I was done, that would be cool.

By all means, if you have value to receive from 6 jobs, it would be well 
worth the investment in a descent HVLP packaged system, like Eastwood 
sells. Start with the least important vehicle and develop your initial 
skills and procedures. Do a couple more improving your techniques and 
skills. Then the last three you do can become very high quality keepers, 
and you should have a good 500 hours of developed skills that will have 
value to others as well as yourself. Cost of the best materials in a good 
paint job is not more than 10 or 15% of the final bill. The rest is the 
cost of skilled labor for preparation. You can have quality paint jobs 
worth $4000 at the out of pocket cost of $400, plus depreciation on the 
equipment, and or course lots of time invested. Open a Schedule C and list 
the costs of equipment under Sec. 179 and the hour value under 
training/education expenses. You'll come out with a very nice tax write off 
for a coupla years.

>but I got the impression that a novice could get a better result with less 
>mess from an HVLP system.
>Any more thoughts? TIA.. Jan B

Yes, with 6 jobs waiting, I think HVLP is the better way to go. Use a paint 
system designed specifically for HVLP or proven to work well. Once you have 
developed your skills with spraying, you could even consider trying 2 part 
epoxies for ultra durable finishing of your best keepers. These are the 
type the Euros used in the 60's and for many decades and some examples over 
20 years old are still suitably nice.

As others have said, stay away from metallics and/or clear coats. Both 
require journeyman skills plus added years of experience to develop 
masterful technique for refinishing the simplest scratches or dings.

