From: "Janice Bartmess" <sbaypetinn(-at-)tailwag.com>
To: "T2" <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 21 Jul 2002 16:17:28 -0700
Subject: Re: [T2] painting question


> By all means, if you have value to receive from 6 jobs, it would be well
> worth the investment in a descent HVLP packaged system, like Eastwood
> sells. Start with the least important vehicle and develop your initial
> skills and procedures. Do a couple more improving your techniques and
> skills.
> -----------------------------
> I'd like to get a betting pool started on this .............. most people
> only want to paint one car in a lifetime.
>
> Bill M.

  I think you are correct on that. This is not something I want to do.
Painting (whether hired out or by self) is something I know that I have to
do if I am going to be able to keep my favorite vehicles. I am not into
showing cars, but I am into having something last, and a lot of VWs have
been driven to the junk yard with terminal cancer. I've got one that's got
dead paint and serious rust now. One more winter and she'll be that much
worse. In my opinion, nothing beats original paint, and I am lucky to have
two that are very close to good, new, original paint. But even one of those
is going to need repainting because the nose was replaced and the body shop,
while they did a great job overall, didn't use good paint. The overspray
shows and the rust is starting to pit the surface.
  I'm as lazy as the next person, but when I finally DO have to act, if it
is within my ability then I'm going to want to get the vehicle as right as I
can, just so that I can continue to enjoy the vehicle for maybe another 20
years or so, without worry. In other words, back to lazy mode.. Or, if I am
motivated, on to the next project. I just have to be careful not to go "anal
retentive" on details. I have a tendency to overdo some things. For
example..
  In the last four years I have put on two garage roofs (one had to be
completely rebuilt, from the top sills of the walls, up to the center
support beam.). Both I did as tear-offs, then replaced at least several
rafters, decking, and put on the best 40 year. On the one that I completely
replaced, I started out just to replace a few rafters here and there, but I
knew I wouldn't be happy with it and ended up tearing off everything and
rebuilding it stronger so that it could support the new heavier roof. Mind
you, that these are only garages. I haven't even started on the houses yet,
though one is tentatively scheduled for this year. Pay someone to do it?
Why, when it is so much fun to do it yourself? (This sort of sentiment
requires a perverse and possibly masochistic mind to understand). Should I
live here that long (or live that long at all!), long past the age when I
can do such things, I will be looking up and grinning at the fine job I did.
I get a lot of pleasure out of something that comes out well, but anything
less than that just gripes me!
  The VWs that I have now, I want at least one to be with me 20 or even 30
years from now. The body and paint are the basic foundation, and without
those, the rest is all temporary. Well, that's my opinion. I've shamelessly
driven some of the most horrible-looking vehicles you ever saw. Whenever
something went wrong with them, I fixed them or saw to it that they were
repaired. They were safe and functional, but I never expected to spend more
than ten years with them, so I didn't bother with paint. These VWs are
different. I want to have them for a very long time, and I want them to go
out of my driveway, proud! Proud to be VWs! LOL..
  If I thought I would be totally unable to do this, I wouldn't try. But you
guys are saying that there is a method, and it can be done, so why not try?
All I am saying is that if it doesn't come out nicely, or if it doesn't
last, I am going to be very irritated with myself. I know that you can't
control everything, but knowing that things can go wrong, you can try to
stack the odds in your favor. Then just hope for the best... Jan B


