Date: Mon, 27 Oct 2003 13:09:22 -0000 (GMT)
From: farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: 68 Baywindow Responds

Hello Everyone,

  In answer to the burning question: Did you jack it up to lube it?  Yeah,
I did.  She still has her legs dangling in the air this morning.  Ill
be setting her back down in a few moments.  This is going to be on my
mind until I eventually get grease to come out of the place it is
supposed to.  If at first I dont succeed, try, try, again.

  I do not know enough about my type of distributor I guess.  I have to
get with the fella that rebuilt it and get more facts.  I may have him
time it when he reinstalls it.  Ill take notes.  I remember it came
with a 1500 that had some strange type of heads, now it has a 1600 of
some sort.  I have access to a timing light, but Ive only seen one in
use, never done it by myself.  Gotta get more details...

  Flaps???  Flapps???  I don't got no stinking Flaps!!!  I dont know what
Flaps is, but I gather it is a supply house?  There is definitely no
such thing as a commercial vw place around here.  I will probably have
to borrow the tool till I can find one for myself.  I have had a hard
time finding 90 weight for the tranny.  I remember one auto shop that I
saw some in, going there today to pick some up.  Ill also ask them
about the 17mm hex.

  Went to my local vw junk yard and looked over the bus parked therein. 
Found out that my sliding door handle was put on wrong and fixed it. 
The end of the sliding door is just nicking the metal exterior, is there
an adjustment that can be made to the door?  I have looked it over and
dont see anything obvious.

  The wing windows: They are flapping around on their little pivots.  I
really wish I had known about their workings being behind the panels
when I had the panels off.  Well, I know where they are now, the next
time I have one off they will get the attention they need.  One thing I
do need is a pin that holds on the knob assembly.  Is there something I
could rig in it's place?

  One thing I would like some advice on also is that we need a small
inverter so my daughter can use her laptop for school work.  Perhaps
some dvds to occupy the kiddies as well...  What do you use?  What are
some pitfalls?  I really dont know anything about using one, just what
I have read.  Do they work in practice?

Thanks to everyone for your contributions, Im grateful!
Jennifer
