From: "Snoopy" <vwsnoopy(-at-)knology.net>
To: <farmer(-at-)orangeburgcomputers.com>
Cc: <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Mon, 27 Oct 2003 08:30:26 -0500
Subject: Re: 68 Baywindow Responds

Jennifer,
The first time I jacked up my bus and greased the axles, it took more than
one tube of grease (doing all the nipples)  Keep pumping it in till it comes
out.  If it isn't coming out there is still room for more.  Two of the
nipples when pumped full come out in behind tire in wheel well. (can't see
from underneath)

Flaps - Friendly local auto parts store

As for sliding door adj??  the front or back is hitting?  The top and bottom
of the door both have screws and allen bolts that can be loosened and
readjusted and the plate that the door locks to also is adjustable.  Have a
helper, as the door is heavy and is safer if someone holds the door as you
adjust.

For the vent window, Pin?  Is it missing the whole latching mechanism? If
so, you could take the door panel off and tighten down good on the
adjustment screw so it doesn't open easily.  If your not worried about the
look, you could also put a thin bolt with a washer thru the opening and then
another washer and a wing nut to lock the vent wing. Not as easy to open but
will secure the window.

For the tranny bolt.  You can use a bolt with 2 17 MM nuts on it.  Tighten
them down together and even on the bolt, cut off the extra part of the bolt
that sticks past nuts and you have a socket that will slide right in and you
can use a wrench to turn it.

The invertors work fine.  No worries just get one rated for what you are
trying to run. I have a 300 watt one that works well for my needs.  If you
use a higher rated one only use when driving as it will suck the battery
down quick.  I use the 300 while camping and have no worries.  I also run it
off an aux battery in case I run it all the way down. But if you are only
using the invertor while driving the reg battery would be fine.  They can
plug straight into cig lighter.  Get one that has an automatic shutoff so
you don't get stranded with a dead battery in case someone forgets to turn
it off when ya park.

Hope this helps.

Peace Sister,
Snoopy
www.fullmoonbusclub.com
