From: Baggins111(-at-)aol.com
Date: Tue, 28 Oct 2003 23:30:38 EST
To: type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Sad news, buses burned... (long)

I know that a lot of you have not heard from me in a while. I confess that I
am a lapsed bus owner. Both buses were sitting in the yard awaiting major
repairs. Some of you may have picked up on the fact that I used a past tense
"were" sitting in the yard. Rest assured, they are still there, but not in
their
previous states.

It's Monday the 21st at 2 A.M. I'm sound asleep. I sleep hard, and become
very disoriented when woken from a deep slumber, as some of you probably do.

Ding dong. Bang bang bang. Ding dong. Bang bang bang bang.
Dingdongdingdongdingdong.

I get up, see red lights flashing throught the front bedroom windows. I get
dressed. Red flashing lights should be triggering something, but they're not.
I
get a drink of water. Red flashing lights? I feel like Arthur Dent when he
saw the bulldozer in his front yard on that (for him) fateful day. Something
should be triggered by the lights, but nothing happens.

I go to the living room and hear the sound of high pressure water hitting
metal. I open the side door and quickly shut it. When I saw the flames
shooting
up from the truck, I woke up.

"Ahhh... now I understand the red flashing lights."

I quickly go the front door and out into the front yard. I walk around to the
side yard and there in the driveway, firemen are extinguishing the truck. And
Monkbus. And the yard. But thankfully, not my house. The house did not
require extinguishing.

I walked outside and simply looked at the truck and the bus, looked at one of
the firemen, then without a word, walked back in the house and picked up the
phone. It was too much to handle.

I called my father, because as, you may have noticed, I have called it the
truck, because it is not my truck, it is my father's that I had borrowed.

bDad?b
bWhat's wrong?b
bThe truck's on fire.b
bWHAT?b
bThe truck's on fire.b
bDid it burn to the ground?b
bDon't know, it's still burning.b
bI'll be right there.b
Click.

Walked back outside and the firemen had doused the flames and were spraying
foam. I talked to the Chief, gave him my name and address for the report. One
of the firemen told me that if the house hadn't been made of brick, or if
someone hadn't driven by and called it in when they did, the house would have
caught, too. I live in a rural area with no neighbors that can see the house.
No
regular night-time traffic, either, so it was pure luck that someone drove by.
There was no evidence of foul play and all of the firemen agreed that it
started under the dash or in the engine near the firewall and was probably
ele
ctrical. They pack up their gear while Ibm following them around verbalizing
my
appreciation for putting out the fire and keeping it from getting the house.
They
leave, lights flashing no more. I stand there in the dark, report in hand,
looking at smoldering heaps of metal.

My father gets to my place shortly after, Mom in tow. We talked about the
options, they went home around 3:30, I tried but failed to sleep, and called
into
work. Spent the day looking at the values for the truck and buses and phone
correspondence with the parents and helping get the insurance particulars in
order.

Full light of the morning revealed nothing but a Ranger shell, badly warped.
Monkbus (the white over orange '73 sunroof with near factory interior) had
been gutted. Nothing left inside. It was directly in front of the truck. The
Terrapin Flyer (the blue '72 Westy that some of you know and love) had the
paint
bubbled up and peeled off the side closest to the truck. The windshield was
bubbled in the lower passenger corner. The side markers and front and rear
turn
signal indicators were melted. The top was OK and unwarped. The Jerry doll
strapped into the pass seat seemed to have more gray hair the next day.

Currently, Ibm counting my blessings. It could have caught the house on fire
with me inside. I wouldnbt go so far as to say that I narrowly escaped death
and I am lucky to be alive, but it could have been much worse.

For the morbidly curious, pics to follow shortly.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
-
--------

A truly happy person is one who can enjoy the scenery on a detour.

John
Ridgeway, SC
'72 Westy - The Terrapin Flyer burnt up one side
'73 Sunroof - Abbey  - May she rest in peace. Sorry Jeff.
'74 Donor
Lapsed member of the world famous Full Moon Bus Club
www.FullMoonBusClub.com
