Cc: bus list <ohiovalleytribe(-at-)yahoogroups.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>,
From: Greg Potts <greg(-at-)pottsfamily.ca>
Date: Sat, 16 Dec 2006 14:07:47 -0500
To: The Bug Pack Pack <The_Bug_Pack(-at-)yahoogroups.com>
Subject: Canadian Camping season re-opens in only 9 weeks.

Hi Volks,

I figured that I'd try and post a reminder before we all get too busy  
with the Holidays... The first Canadian bus gathering of the year is  
only 9 weeks away.

If you've never camped in winter you should consider giving it a  
try... with the proper preparations you can be just as comfortable as  
in summer. Valens Conservation Area has plenty of winter  
activities... Cross Country Skiing, Skating, and Ice fishing are just  
a few suggestions. If those don't appeal then there's will always be  
a warm space for your chair around the campfire. If you have any  
musical talent please bring an instrument along as there will be  
people to jam with.

This will be the fourth annual gathering and we're hoping to have  
more buses than ever make the trip to the TCWBC. Be assured that the  
facilities of the campground are top-notch and there will be flush  
toilets and warm indoor showers available at the comfort station  
located a short distance from our campsite. All of the sites we  
occupy are supplied with 30A of electricity so there plentiful power  
availableto keep your camper toasty and warm. I can guarantee that  
there will be no mosquitos or black flies and you should expect to  
use a minimal amount of sunscreen, if any. If you hate camping  
because of insects, this is the campout for YOU.

A group dinner will be served up on Saturday night, and a traditional  
FMBC Breakfast Burrito feasting will occur on Sunday morning. Please  
bring a couple bucks to chip in on dinner, and a contribution to the  
breakfast is also requested. I'll be announcing a web-based burrito  
contribution form online closer to the event date.

"Bus Conservatists" who prefer not to drive their Precious German  
Iron in the winter are also welcome to attend the event. There's a  
number of hotels and motels in Cambridge located within minutes of  
the campground, including a Travelodge and a Super 8.

For more information and pics from gatherings of  years past, visit  
the TCWBC website at:
http://www.pottsfamily.ca/The_Bug_Pack/TCWBC/



Happy Trails,

Greg Potts
1973/74/75/77/79 Westfakia "Bob the Tomato"
www.pottsfamily.ca/westfakia
www.busesofthecorn.com
