Date: Sun, 17 Dec 2006 14:12:49 -0800
From: MissVeeDub <vwdreamer(-at-)gmail.com>
To: Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>, "Wet Westies" <wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com>,
Subject: '80 ASI Riviera Van for Sale

Hello everyone!!!

My Mom has decided to sell her '80 ASI Riviera Camper Van (Van-Gogh).
I rebuilt the top end (as referenced in ad info) with brand new AMC
heads (not the older ones that had valve seat issues) and replaced the
valves with the TRW valves (the ones that come with are not as high
quality). If you have any mechanical questions please email me, my mom
will be in the Portland area for a few weeks then traveling south, the
van will stay in Portland area with me. I would really like this van
to go to a fellow vw lover, that can love him as much as we do.

Please check out the photos here:
http://www.thesamba.com/vw/classifieds/detail.php?id=372335

NEW engine  8k miles total; top end rebuild 5200 miles ago.
Top end rebuild included: new AMC heads, the valves that came with the
heads were removed and TRW (high quality valves) were installed among
other misc parts.

Engine does not leak oil.

NEW transmission  was installed at the same time of the initial
engine replacement (8k miles).

Mechanical:
New starter
New alternator
New clutch slave cylinder
New propane tap
Locking gas cap

Camper details:
Rare Propane furnace with thermostat
RV power outlet
City water inlet
8 gallon water storage tank
Sink with both electric and hand pump
2 burner propane stove
Propane/12V refrigerator
The dual battery died, and has not been replaced
Table which can store in the back when not needed
Ample storage
Custom curtains
Swivel Captains chairs
Top is in excellent condition, the canvas has a few small tears in the
netting
New pad for the back bed
Second set of drapes

Passed DEQ, tags good thru 2008 in Oregon
Tire in good shape, also comes with spare rims with studded tires mounted

You can see from the pic that with just a little bit of love this van
will be in great shape cosmetically, but if you're like me and don't
mind a little bit of character it's ready to roll to your favorite
camping destination today!

ASI conversions are similar to the more prevalent Westfalia, with
minor differences that are improvements in my opinion. Note the pop
top goes straight up, giving you good head clearance for top bunk
sleepers from head to toe.

Please call for more information:
cell - (541) 227-1840
or email:
Arayalght(-at-)gmail.com

--
Heather Woltz
'71 VW Bus: Riviera Camper - BusZilla: 2007cc Built by Me
'71 Datsun 510 Wagon: Custom w/Ford 2.6
'81 Yamaha XS400 Special II
'96 Yamaha TT250R
http://home.comcast.net/~vwdreamer
--------------------------------------------------------
"Well-behaved women seldom make history." - Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
