From: rodewarrior(-at-)comcast.net
To: Richard Atwell <ratwell(-at-)mac.com>, Type2 <type2(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Tue, 19 Dec 2006 00:25:32 +0000
Subject: Re: [T2] Garmin GPS

People get weird about GPS brands quickly, if you buy the wrong one you might could get excommunicated by the owner of another.

I have a Magellan Meridian Color, it has been discontinued for 2 years, I have had it close to 4, it was the best Magellan had at the time (that wasn't driving specific) and fit all of my needs and they have come out with many better ones since.

I have a friend that buys Garmin "because they are the best," he wants to fight about it all the time and is always trying to compete with my GPS, but in 4 years he has upgraded twice to get where I always have been as far as I can tell.

This is probably not Garmins fault, he is very poor at doing research and getting something that suits all of his needs the first time, he has also probably spent a lot more money than me.

I wouldn't rely on advice to buy a particular brand because it was good a long time ago, the different brands seem to leapfrog eachother in technology and packaging, if you buy a great GPS that one brand has the other will probably come out with something just a little bit better soon afterwards, just find one that you like and that suits your needs.

My advice is to look really hard and learn as much as you can and save up enough money to get the one you want, don't get a cheaper one to suit some of your needs, I didn't and I am still not looking to get a new GPS, but I have thousands of hours and miles on mine, driving and hiking.

The Lowrance one mentioned by somebody else sounds very cool.

You can also buy MS Streets & Trips with a USB GPS antennae and have a nice big laptop screen, i think it will even talk to you, this may be the best bet if you are mostly using it to drive and already have a laptop or palm style computer, my mom recently purchased this but is waiting for me to figure out how it works so I can show her.

Research, research, research,  we will have to duel if you get anything except Magellan though, so if you get a Garmin or Lowrance watch out for me on the street.

JM
> I was shopping over the weekend and came across a specialty store selling Garmin 
> GPS devices. They've come a long way since I last looked at them a few years ago 
> finally offering pleasant color touch screens. 
> 
> Does anyone have any experience with them to share? 
