Date: Sat, 23 Dec 2006 06:13:50 -0800 (PST)
From: John Anderson <wvukidsdoc(-at-)yahoo.com>
To: Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu>, type2(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: [T2] Driving the bus in snow

Mike,
   
  I drove my '78 Westy for two years 50 miles each way in the winter in WV
  and western MD over the allegheny front.  Many days with a good 10-12
  inches of unplowed snow on the interstate.  I LOVED driving that thing in
  the winter, best vehicle I've ever driven in the snow.  Drove it on regular
  ole reinforced Michelin XZXs at the time, only put on chains twice in two
  years.  I would regularly pass idiots in 4wd SUV's and have to hop out
  into the passing lane to do so into unplowed snow.  Funny story, I once
  passed an idiot state cop weaving back and forth nearly uncontrollably
  in his Crown Vic and he flipped on the lights and tried to catch up with me
  (likely to write me for driving beyond conditions or something) but I just
  kept on going while he nearly wiped out.  The bus is great in the snow, but
  it is a 2wd, rear wheel drive, vehicle even if it has all the weight over the
  rear axle.  If you can drive in the snow, there is no better vehicle, if you can't
  you shouldn't.  Today older and smarter if I was doing a lot of it, I'd
  probably pick up a set of dedicated Nokian snows, but I wouldn't be
  afraid to head out in the bus occasionally with just a set of chains.  A
  few practical issues, I nearly froze to death driving that thing, even with
  a 5" piece of foam jammed into the hole for the westy pop top.  Even
  with a top notch tight heater I had to layer clothes like crazy, and two
  sets of gloves to deal with temps usually in the 15-20F range for an
  hour drive, got a lot better after I rigged a recirculating system on the
  heater.  Best to insulate the bus and you as well as you can if you
  are doing a lot of it, or find an alternative method to heat.  At the time
  I had my '90 Corrado, '85 and '87 Vanagons, and the '78 and the
  bus drove so much better than any of the others (don't ask me why
  it drove better than the Vanagons, but it did) that I drove it without
  heat instead of anything water cooled.
   
  John

Mike Soultanian <msoultan(-at-)csulb.edu> wrote:
  Hey Everyone,
I'm going to be heading up to Big Bear, CA for the next few weeks and 
I'm sure I'm probably going to encounter some snow. How does the bus 
drive in the snow? I have all season tires on there, but I'm guessing 
that I'm probably still going to need chains if it does snow 
significantly. I'm thinking that it should be relatively descent 
because the engine's over the drive wheels, but I just wanted to check. 
I've driven a bunch of vehicles in snowy conditions, but never my bus.
