From: "Jason Starbird" <JasonStarbird(-at-)att.net>
To: <vintagebus(-at-)type2.com>
Date: Sun, 13 Jul 2003 22:45:10 -0600
Subject: another good day for the bus!

well,
    Today I was able to fanagle the jacks and jack stands around to get the
front of the 67 back on the gound and the jackstands to the back  in
preparation  for the engine removal.  Since there was no rear apron or
bumper on, I had the motor out in about 25 minutes....I love how easy that
is.....the rest of the automotive world should be just sick with envy!!
Once the motor was out, I pulled off the bug style muffler, the sheet metal,
carefully pried the pully off, and removed the oil pump. I had the 4 rivit
cam gear, so installed the correct oil pump, and the new cover. Much nicer.
Installed the sheetmetal, pully and then worked the new bus muffler into
place. Changed out the clutch plate....good thing too, it was pretty worn.
The tranny mounts looked good, the transaxle boots looked like pretty new
replacements. The clutch arm and throw out bearing looked good also. So
installed the new clutch cable and then put the motor back in. Hooked it all
up, changed the oil and installed the rear apron, and the rear bumper. Some
of the rear sheetmetal is banged up so I wasn't able to install all of the
hardware at the moment . Tomorrow I can get the other two tires installed on
my rims, and then I have to figure out my dilema with the torn shock mount.
I think I am going to try and hammer it back into position, and get the
shock installed, so I can drive it over to a shop to get welded. Man this
was the busiest , dirtiest weekend of automotive work that I've had in over
15 years. I worked in a semi conductor cleanroom for the last 13 years, and
just never got this dirty! What fun! I just wish it wasn't so dang hot! I
dream of a shop someday where I can roll the bus into and work on it. At
least I don't live in a subdivision where I'd be be getting all kinds of
nastygrams for pulling my engine out in my front yard!!Maybe when we get to
Kansas I'll have one.....Well , that's it for the night! Hope everyone had a
good weekend!
        Kind Regards, Jason

Starbirds' Custom Wood Working
507 North 11th East Street
Mountain Home, Idaho  83647
(208) 859-4653
www.starbirdscustomwoodworking.com
