Date: Mon, 14 Jul 2003 19:34:57 -0500 (CDT)
From: Matt Roberds <mattroberds(-at-)cox.net>
To: vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Subject: Re: Cooked alternator?

>From: "Ground Zero" <tom(-at-)groundzeroroasting.com>
>Date: Sun, 13 Jul 2003 20:18:09 -0700
>
>This is a smell I have never smelled coming from a car, ever.  Kinda
>like burning manure.

Burning wire insulation has a kind of sickly-sweet, plastic-y smell.
If you have a short piece of scrap wire, and a Zippo, try it - but
outside, as it'll stink up the house.

>There is also a powdery substance that reminds me of brake dust around
>the alt. pulley.

Was it black?  Might be dust from a brush in the alternator.  (Yes,
alternators have brushes too, but they don't wear nearly as fast as the
ones in generators.)

>The smell also did not seem to disipate when the bus was not running.

Whatever's making the smell may or may not have been still happening.
Plastic-burning smell tends to stick around.

You might want to inspect the heavy wires in the engine compartment
(battery to starter, alternator to starter or battery) to make sure
they aren't worn through, like where they go through the sheet metal
at the right front of the compartment.  Key off, everything electrical
off, alternator unhooked - disconnect the battery ground strap from
the body and then touch it back to the body again.  You should get no
spark or a very small one.  If you get a big spark, then there's a
problem in the wiring somewhere.  If not, leave the ground strap not
touching the body and hook the alternator back up, then touch the
ground strap back to the body again.  If you get a much bigger spark,
then yeah, something in your alternator is not right.

You can also check to see if your alternator is charging.  Hook
everything up and measure the voltage at the battery with everything
off.  It should be 12.6 V for a fully charged battery, but whatever it
is, remember that number.  Start the engine and run it a little above
idle (1000-1500 rpm) and the voltage measured at the battery should go
up at least a volt if the alternator is working right.

Whatever you decide, it's probably a good plan to keep the alternator
and/or battery disconnected when you're not driving the Bus until you
figure out what's causing the smell.

Good luck!

Matt Roberds
