To: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM
Cc: VintageBus(-at-)type2.com,wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com
Date: Tue, 15 Jul 2003 12:33:00 -0700
From: wilden1(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Exhaust Ceramic Coatings - New Reasonable Price

My Ceramics Coatings supplier had just introduced a ceramic coating for
Exhaust Systems that is Economical and can be applied by the end user.
The product ALK1104 is water based, nonflammable and does not require
professional oven baking for professional results.
The ALK 1104 comes in 4 oz plastic bottles and can be applied by spray
gun after the Exhaust system has been properly sand blasted with 120 grit
aluminum oxide media.
The 4oz is plenty to coat a complete Air Cooler or Wasser Boxer Exhaust
system.
More is not better you might get two systems coated with the 4 oz if you
apply it carefully.
The ALK1104 offers these benefits:
Corrosion Proofs the Exhaust, It is a Thermal Barrier meaning that it
keeps the heat inside your pipes and converter / muffler making your
engine bay cooler and your exhaust system perform better.
The ALK is rated as effective up to 2000 degrees F.
The 4oz is plenty to coat a complete Air Cooled or Wasser Boxer Exhaust
system.
The application can be accomplished with a home owner type spray gun, air
brush or detail gun.
Price delivered for 4 oz is $36.00 The ALK1104 is aluminum colored and
will have a satin finish when it cures on your exhaust as you drive your
van. If you want it to shine you'll need to give it a light rubbing with
Scotch Bright fine abrasive pads.
If there is any interest by list members I'll be glad to answer all
questions.
Same day shipment on all orders paid through PayPal or payment with US
Postal money orders.
This is the real stuff to stop that exhaust system rot and protect your
expensive exhaust components.
If your system is pure junk then this isn't going to fix anything but for
parts that still have a good metal ring to them this will be well worth
the investment for the longevity it will add to your system.
---------------------
In addition: For those wanting to improve the overall appearance to their
injector tubes, plenum chamber or other inside the engine bay parts ; the
same ALK1104 can be applied to any part that you can bake in your home
oven at 300 degrees for an hour after application.
---------------------
Professional application of header ceramics and exhaust ceramic coatings
can easily cost over $180.00 for systems as large as the VW systems so
this is a good deal if you're willing to remove your parts and haul them
to the sand blasting company. Installation of all new gaskets is
recommended with this procedure.

Stan Wilder
Engine Ceramics
http://www.engineceramics.netfirms.com/
