To: vanagon(-at-)GERRY.VANAGON.COM
Cc: wetwesties(-at-)yahoogroups.com,vintagebus(-at-)type2.com
Date: Wed, 16 Jul 2003 09:31:25 -0700
From: wilden1(-at-)juno.com
Subject: Exhaust Ceramic Coatings - Replies to most common questions

#1) Is this a one time deal? reply :It's a standard inventory product.
You can order anytime you wish.
#2) Do new systems need the sandblasting? reply: Yes new systems need to
be sand blasted to remove paint, oil, sealers on the pipes, muffler. The
ALK1104 needs the surface texture for proper bonding. After blasting the
system needs to be wiped down with lacquer thinner to remove any residual
dust, oil, hand prints.
#3) Does this process require baking? reply: The ALK1104 is water based,
and will cure on your vehicle as you drive. It requires about 30 minutes
at full operating temperature.
#4) Can the system be touched up if it gets rock pits etc.? reply; Yes
but the individual part needs to be sand blasted again for proper
bonding, the old material can remain. Spot repairs can be made.
#5) How is ALK1104 different from other coating processes?
---- Here is the alternate high dollar method -----
Exhaust manifolds can either be a cast iron, factory-type manifold or a
tube steel header typically used in performance applications, though they
are becoming very common in OEM applications. There are a variety of
reasons for coating an exhaust manifold header. #1 Corrosion protection.
The manifold will live longer as well as look nicer. Whether it is for
performance or show, coating an exhaust manifold is valuable to you. #2
The coating is a thermal barrier, thus keeping heat within the manifold
or header. There are a number of benefits for this. First, by keeping
heat within the manifold, you're going to accelerate the exhaust gas
velocity which reduces back pressure and reduces fuel contamination due
to reversion. This is a performance benefit. Second, you'll reduce the
surface temperature of the manifold. This means if a person comes in
contact with it, they are less likely to be burned and leave skin behind.
If there is a component close to it, it will not see as much heat as it
would with an uncoated manifold. In addition, not as much heat will be
radiated under the hood or into the engine compartment. This reduces the
under hood temperature which, again, reduces the temperature of
surrounding parts, such as, alternators and starters. It also reduces the
amount of heat that can be drawn in through the carburetor, which is a
secondary performance benefit. There are a variety of coatings that can
be used on exhaust manifolds or headers. 
The most popular is our Cermakrome. This gives a near-chrome finish,
tremendous corrosion protection and is an excellent thermal barrier. On
the stock side, our Color-guard Cast Iron is extremely popular,
especially with restorers, since it imparts an original, dark cast iron
appearance rather than the lighter appearance that is more typical of a
bead-blasted finish, which is not truly stock. If someone prefers a
lighter appearance, they can mix our Colorguard Cast Iron with our
Colorguard Aluminum to arrive at a shade they prefer. Both of these
coatings have good thermal stability and are good thermal barriers. We
recommend on cast iron, due to it's porosity, that a base coat of
Cermakrome be put down first, then bake, then lightly sand blast, then
put the color you wish on top. For tube steel headers, you can use our
Cermakrome, Colorguard over a base coat, Black Satin, WBX, or WBLX. In
most cases a single coating is acceptable. In extreme cases it might be
advisable to use a base coat, such as our HHBK with a top coat such as
Black Satin or WBX. In addition, you can put down a base coat of the
HHBK, top coat it with WBX, and top coat that with our Cerma Clear,
creating a glossy black finish that has very good high temperature
stability.
We also manufacture an insulating base coat for performance applications
where Cermakrome is desired. This is our MCS coating. This can be applied
to the outside of the exhaust manifold or header, cured, lightly sand
blasted, then a layer of Cermakrome applied over it, cured and polished.
This will impart higher temperature capability allowing Cermakrome to be
run on 9 to 1 motors, which typically have an extremely hot exhaust gas.
MCS can also be used inside of a header to reduce the amount of heat that
is transferred into the metal of the header itself. MCS is an extremely
effective thermal barrier. Use TLHB on chrome headers to reduce blueing.
The end result of a coated manifold or header will be better performance,
better appearance, reduced corrosion which means long-term improvement in
appearance and will reduce component and underhood temperatures. 
